---
title: ASecurityDilemmaGrowsinAsia
date: 2017-05-31 21:01:11
author: 
tags: 
---


收录于合集

![](/images/4259/2.png)

# **In the Absence of American Policy, A Security Dilemma Grows in Asia**

 **Andrew Ludwig：** Junior Fellow of

Center for Peace and Conflict Studies

![](/images/4259/3.png)

  

![](/images/4259/4.jpeg)

  

Through his first 100-plus days in office President Donald Trump has yet to
form a clear and concise Asia policy. This lack of clarity and consistency in
the Trump administration’s rhetoric, actions, and statements about the region
is creating a security dilemma in Asia.

With the United States showing such ambiguity towards Asia, regional states
have reached out to China and other partners, and even moved to increase their
own military capabilities and presence to secure their interests and fill the
void left by America. All area states are worried about their relationship
with the U.S. and the Trump administration. A plan must come eventually from
American leadership in order to minimize the breakdown of regional stability.

![](/images/4259/5.jpeg)

President Trump has yet to fill many key positions on his administration’s
foreign policy team, and is still lacking true China experts on his staff.
Further, Trump has yet to nominate a candidate for Ambassador to South Korea,
a key diplomatic position given Seoul’s recent political transition and a
bellicose North Korea continually raising tensions and fears of conflict. The
U.S. has not run any freedom of navigation operations (FONOP) in the South
China Sea, and has actually avoided the South China Sea nearly all together
under Trump – a flip from his campaign rhetoric. When it was announced a U.S.
carrier strike group would approach the Korean Peninsula to quell North Korean
aggression, the fleet sailed in theopposite direction.

Meanwhile, China announced it had placed rocket launchers on Fiery Cross Reef
in the South China Sea to protect the man-made island that is also claimed by
the Philippines, Vietnam, and Taiwan. The U.S. has not responded to this
claim, nor has Trump addressed China’s continued militarization of the South
China Sea as he campaigned he would.

Regional states like the Philippines, once the staunchest of American allies
in Asia, have reached out to engage China in several cooperative measures
(despite President Duterte’s often offbeat statements),questioning America’s
willingness and ability to combat China in the South China Sea.

In Japan, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe plans to pursue constitutional reform
regarding the use of its Self-Defense Forces. Abe wants to amend the
constitution’s pacifist clause, Article 9, by 2020 and no longer limit Japan’s
military forces. This aggressive and once unthinkable notion comes in the face
of persistent North Korean military threats, and missile tests crashing down
off Japan’s coast. Tokyo also seeks to strengthen its abilities to project
influence on overlapping territorial claims with China.

China is strongly opposed to any Japanese militarization, and any greater
threat to the two states’ multiple territorial disputes in the East and South
China Seas. With no solid U.S. strategy, Japan feels a stronger, more well-
rounded military might be its only means of security against China and North
Korea. Beijing is united in the memory of Japanese imperialism in the 20th
century, and is not willing to deal with a rearmed Japan off its coast. During
their meeting in February, Trump told Abe the U.S. was committed to Japan’s
security, yet no policy or action has come following the statement.

China is likewise threatened by the deployment of the U.S. Terminal High
Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) anti-ballistic missile system in South Korea –
possibly the only strong security commitment being made by the U.S. in the
region, however, one that began under the Obama administration. Beijing’s
strong opposition to THAAD may make China reluctant to take steps to curb the
growing threat from North Korea in retaliation for what it sees as a risk to
its own ballistic missile deterrent.

This lack of U.S. engagement and ambiguity in communication is creating a
security vacuum. Noticeably worried by an absence of American involvement and
coherent policy, America’s allies in the region have begun looking at other
means for ensuring their security. There is a dangerous lack of clear
interaction and consistency coming from the U.S. in Asia at a time when a firm
and reliable policy is needed to keep the region from a growing security
dilemma which could spiral into a regional arms race, destabilizing Asia and
increasing the chance of conflict if there is not a swift shift in direction.

A clear and robust U.S. presence in the region is vital to regional security
and stability. President Trump still relies too heavily on business tactics
when it comes to diplomacy and communicating with other world leaders,
treating them too much like business partners. In international relations,
personal relationships cannot be relied upon to solve all disputes, or keep
foreign leaders in line with nonexistent policy and empty words.

The Trump administration must act fast to fill key positions and develop a
consistent line of policy, on which it can show signs of following through on.
The North Korea issue cannot be addressed until America’s regional stance is
stabilized, trust with allies is regained, and the region as a whole is on the
same page.

The budding security dilemma present in the current atmosphere presents a
unique risk to all countries involved, including the United States, in that a
continued absence of American policy in the region could reshape the balance
of power. Rhetoric and empty promises will not fix the security issues in
Asia, only engagement and a clear strategic approach can.

  

来源：China&Us Focus

筛选：红尘

编辑：鑫辰

  

 **声 明**

国政学人微信公众平台系非盈利学术平台。建立初衷是方便广大学人进行学术研究，促进学术的传播和交流，不做任何商业用途。如有任何权利问题，请直接与我们联系。

往期精彩：

[如约而至｜国际政治经典著作书单整理（附免费下载方式！）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484047&idx=1&sn=7cbf5e66e8c4ecc1567f9259c5ddf5c5&chksm=eb3f9cc9dc4815df5dfd4d47882cb03ee5512acbfc03a57ff759a0b64aea0cd3cf5d6fc36fa8&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[期刊分享 |
国际关系相关专业所有核心期刊免费获取（最新pdf版）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484056&idx=4&sn=23e11c3222678a1409b173359f85dcb6&chksm=eb3f9cdedc4815c8aa50ea71548dfdd5c0cc40a9ea28de076ba14178d74f9e0b7a711b093821&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[科普 |
秦晖：极左、左派、右派、极右的区分与现状](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484129&idx=1&sn=b4819efcf421a202fe5000359d0ef690&chksm=eb3f9ca7dc4815b1fddd880e2813515080e9f23e1049089bd9db87260e729551cd43c7619a34&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[学科综述 |
国际政治学学科史（全）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247483961&idx=2&sn=5e1bb06e2f8d246383f9e8174ea0076c&chksm=eb3f9c7fdc481569bcaa1581a4ece88cbe824d51e4d781d7869f341462adc7ba51e294353da7&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

  

<img src='/images/4259/6.png' width='100%' />

  

