---
title: AIIBwinsachievementsinshorttimedespitechallenges
date: 2017-06-18 22:08:04
author: 
tags: 
---


收录于合集

<img src='/images/4196/2.png' width='100%' />

  

# AIIB wins achievements in short time despite challenges: S. Korean deputy
minister

JEJU ISLAND, South Korea - The China-initiated Asian Infrastructure Investment
Bank (AIIB) won achievements in a short time of just one and a half years
despite challenges facing the international development bank, South Korea's
deputy finance minister said.

"AIIB already generated achievements in one and a half years of its
establishment," Song In-chang, deputy minister for international affairs at
South Korea's Ministry of Strategy and Finance, told Xinhua Saturday on the
sidelines of the AIIB's annual meeting.

The second annual meeting of the AIIB's board of governors lasted for two days
through Saturday in South Korea's southern resort island of Jeju.

The first meeting was held in Beijing last year. The third annual meeting was
scheduled to be held in India in June 2018.

The AIIB, officially launched in January 2016, is a multilateral development
bank initiated by China and supported by a wide range of countries and
regions, which provides financing for infrastructure improvement in Asia.

The deputy minister said the 18-month-old AIIB achieved what other
multilateral development banks (MDBs) took four to five years to achieve.

To date, the AIIB has approved 2.49 billion U.S. dollars in financing for 16
infrastructure projects in nine countries. Twelve of the projects were co-
financed, while four were standalone projects prepared by the bank.

"AIIB's progress is very fast. AIIB President Jin Liqun did well," said Song.

Despite the lack of experience of the newest international financial
institution, Song said the AIIB has an advantage of making a fast decision by
the decision-making body.

He said the South Korean government will actively support corporate
infrastructure projects linked to the AIIB by creating a firm networking with
AIIB officials.

Meanwhile, Song held a separate press conference with local reporters on
Saturday, saying South Korea's hosting of the AIIB's first annual meeting
outside the Beijing headquarters had a great meaning to the country.

President Moon Jae-in, who took office on May 10, made a congratulatory
address at the opening ceremony of the AIIB annual meeting on Friday, making a
debut into the international event.

South Korea is the fifth-biggest shareholder of the AIIB which owns about $100
billion of subscribed capital, including some $20 billion in paid-in capital.

The deputy minister said South Korea planned to share its technology,
experience and finance of infrastructure with other AIIB members to contribute
to the environmentally-friendly economic development in Asia.

Among the 80 approved members, 75 delegations attended the AIIB's second
annual meeting along with 46 officials from multilateral development banks
such as the Asian Development Bank.

"It was a very high participation rate," said Song. In addition to the
delegations and MDB officials, central bankers and over 20 finance ministers
attended the second annual meeting.

The number of AIIB members was raised to 80, including 57 founding members, as
the board of governors approved Argentina, Madagascar and Tonga as new members
during the business session on Friday.

  

来源：CHINA DAILY

筛选：红尘

编辑：麦田里的宋全错

  
  
  
---  
  
**声 明**

  

国政学人微信公众平台系非盈利学术平台。建立初衷是方便广大学人进行学术研究，促进学术的传播和交流，不做任何商业用途。如有任何权利问题，请直接与我们联系。

您可能还会喜欢：

[如约而至｜国际政治经典著作书单整理（附免费下载方式！）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484047&idx=1&sn=7cbf5e66e8c4ecc1567f9259c5ddf5c5&chksm=eb3f9cc9dc4815df5dfd4d47882cb03ee5512acbfc03a57ff759a0b64aea0cd3cf5d6fc36fa8&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[期刊分享 |
国际关系相关专业所有核心期刊免费获取（最新pdf版）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484056&idx=4&sn=23e11c3222678a1409b173359f85dcb6&chksm=eb3f9cdedc4815c8aa50ea71548dfdd5c0cc40a9ea28de076ba14178d74f9e0b7a711b093821&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[学科综述 |
国际政治学学科史（全）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247483961&idx=2&sn=5e1bb06e2f8d246383f9e8174ea0076c&chksm=eb3f9c7fdc481569bcaa1581a4ece88cbe824d51e4d781d7869f341462adc7ba51e294353da7&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

<img src='/images/4196/3.jpeg' width='100%' />

  

