---
title: ChinaBuildsGlobalInfrastructureAlongsideitsSoftPower
date: 2017-06-12 23:00:20
author: 
tags: 
---


收录于合集

![](/images/4213/2.png)

  

**China Builds Global Infrastructure Alongside its Soft Power**

 **作者简介：** Tom Watkins，Advisor, University of Michigan Confucius Institute  

 **文章来源：** China&Us Focus，Jun 07 , 2017

  

While Detroit—the city that put the world on wheels—celebrates the completion
of 3.3 miles of rail, the Q-Line, taking riders from the riverfront in
downtown Detroit to Mid-Town, China is interconnecting the entire country with
high speed rail lines and investing nearly a trillion dollars in connecting
the world.

  
Just a few short weeks ago – unnoticed by many Americans – there were more
foreign dignitaries and leaders gathered in China than at any time there since
the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games. They assembled to hear Chinese President Xi
Jinping unleash his "One Belt, One Road" Initiative. The goal? To boost
Chinese influence by investing and strengthening infrastructure and trade
links with the rest of the world.

  

<img src='/images/4213/3.jpeg' width='700' height='409' />

  
 **21st Century Connectivity**

  

China has pledged to connect Central Asia with Southeast Asia – reminiscent of
the ancient Silk Road – while also connecting the Middle East and Africa with
a massive infrastructure project set to surpass America’s Marshall Plan that
rebuilt Europe after World War ll. This bold plan is part of President Xi's
attempt to rein in the global leadership mantle that is slipping away from the
U.S.

  
Many see China expanding its soft power in developing future markets for its
goods and services. China’s official Xinhua News Agency proclaims that China’s
Belt and Road initiative “aims at achieving the common development of all
countries rather than seeking spheres of political influence.”

  
The New York Times reported that President Xi is aiming to use China’s wealth
and industrial know-how to create a new kind of globalization that will
dispense with the rules of the aging Western-dominated institutions. "The goal
is to refashion the global economic order, drawing countries, and companies
more tightly into China’s orbit."

  

In their book, Wealth and Power: China’s Long March To The Twenty-First
Century, old China hands, Orville Schell and John Dulury brilliantly walk us
through “how a nation, after a long and painful period of dynastic decline,
intellectual upheaval, foreign occupation, civil war, and revolution, manage
to burst forth onto the world stage with such an impressive run of hyper-
development and wealth creation, culminating in the extraordinary dynamism of
China today.”

  

Things have taken a miraculous turn for the better since that century of
humiliation – a period of both Japanese and Western intervention 1839 and 1949
when China was subjugated to Western rule.

  
**Wealth and Power**

  

If Mao Zedong could come back for a day he would see what the leaders and the
people of China accomplished since the Communist takeover on October 1, 1949,
when he stood at the gates of Tiananmen Square, proclaiming the founding of
The People’s Republic of China. It is said Mao emphasized, "China has stood
up." With massive wealth and a rising military, China has indeed stood up
longer than many scholars thought possible.

  
Today, Xi Jinping is presiding over a nation with fuqiang or "wealth and
power," after decades of following the failures of Mao's revolution and Deng
Xiapong's warning to, "keep a cool head and maintain a low profile. Never take
the lead - but aim to do something big."

  

Clearly, the Belt and Road Initiative which engages sixty nations is
"something big."

  
McKinsey, a global consulting company, calls the Belt and Road initiative with
its modern network of railways, roads, pipelines, and utility grids a modern
day Silk Road that comprises more than physical connections. "It aims to
create the world’s largest platform for economic cooperation, including policy
coordination, trade and financing collaboration, and social and cultural
cooperation." All the while, America, with its re-found isolationism, sits on
the sidelines.

  
Few in the U.S. remember that China held the title of the world’s largest
economy during eighteen of the last twenty centuries. Clearly the Chinese are
not content to remain the factory for the world. On multiple planes, the
Chinese are striving and succeeding in reclaiming their status as a cultured,
educated, innovative nation. Many expect China to re-capture the world's
largest economy title within a decade. In fact, some would argue China has
already passed this milestone.

  
The Chinese are coming also coming to Detroit. Alibaba Group, the Amazon of
China, will inaugurate its effort to empower U.S. small businesses,
entrepreneurs and farmers to sell to 1.4 billion Chinese consumers at “Gateway
17,” a small business summit that will be held at Cobo Hall in Detroit,
Michigan on June 20-21.

  

Our leaders at the national, state and local level need to find ways to assure
China's continued rise does not come at our demise, and to figure out ways to
influence and take advantage of China’s plans to integrate more into the
global economy.

  

The ancient Chinese philosopher, Confucius, reminds us: “He who learns but
does not think, is lost. He who thinks but does not learn is in great danger.”

  
We need to rebuild the U.S. while staying connected to the world.

  

Despite President Trump's assertion, building Great Walls and becoming
isolationists in a global economy, where ideas and jobs can and do move around
the globe instantaneously, will not "Make America Great Again."

  

![](/images/4213/4.png)

  

来源：China&Us Focus

筛选：红尘

编辑：沉安

  

声 明

国政学人微信公众平台系非盈利学术平台。建立初衷是方便广大学人进行学术研究，促进学术的传播和交流，不做任何商业用途。如有任何权利问题，请直接与我们联系。

  

您可能还会喜欢：

[如约而至｜国际政治经典著作书单整理（附免费下载方式！）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484047&idx=1&sn=7cbf5e66e8c4ecc1567f9259c5ddf5c5&chksm=eb3f9cc9dc4815df5dfd4d47882cb03ee5512acbfc03a57ff759a0b64aea0cd3cf5d6fc36fa8&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[期刊分享 |
国际关系相关专业所有核心期刊免费获取（最新pdf版）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484056&idx=4&sn=23e11c3222678a1409b173359f85dcb6&chksm=eb3f9cdedc4815c8aa50ea71548dfdd5c0cc40a9ea28de076ba14178d74f9e0b7a711b093821&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[学科综述 |
国际政治学学科史（全）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247483961&idx=2&sn=5e1bb06e2f8d246383f9e8174ea0076c&chksm=eb3f9c7fdc481569bcaa1581a4ece88cbe824d51e4d781d7869f341462adc7ba51e294353da7&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

  

![](/images/4213/5.jpeg)

  

