---
title: China,USholdfruitfulsecuritytalks
date: 2017-06-22 21:47:44
author: 
tags: 
---


收录于合集

![](/images/4188/2.png)

  

China, US hold fruitful security talks

  

By CHEN WEIHUA![](/images/4188/3.png)

chinadaily.com.cn

  

![](/images/4188/4.png)![](/images/4188/5.jpeg) _US Secretary of State Rex
Tillerson and Defense Secretary James Mattis meet with Chinese State Councilor
Yang Jiechi and General Fang Fenghui, chief of the People's Liberation Army's
Joint Staff Department prior to the US-China Diplomatic and Security Dialogue
at the State Department in Washington, US, June 21, 2017._

China and the United States concluded a constructive high-level dialogue in
Washington on Wednesday, according to the Chinese delegation attending the
inaugural China-US Diplomatic and Security Dialogue (D&SD).  

  

State Councilor Yang Jiechi, US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and US
Defense Secretary Jim Mattis co-hosted the meeting held at the US State
Department.

  

General Fang Fenghui, chief of the People's Liberation Army's Joint Staff
Department, was among the attendees.

  

Yang said the successful meeting between President Xi Jinping and President
Donald Trump at Mar-a-Lago in April has charted the course for China-US
relations in a new period, adding that under the consensus of the two leaders,
the bilateral relations have made positive progress lately.

  

He called on both sides to maintain the positive direction to achieve more
progress in the relationship.

  

The two sides agreed to make concerted efforts to expand mutually beneficial
cooperation and manage and control their differences based on the principle of
mutual respect.

  

Both sides hope to push forward relations onto a long-term and healthy
development path, according to a press release from the Chinese delegation.

  

The two governments agreed on the importance of maintaining frequent high-
level exchanges. They believe that with the joint efforts by both sides, the
meeting between Xi and Trump at the G20 Summit in July in Hamburg, Germany,
will achieve positive results, and the state visit to China later this year by
Trump, at the invitation of Xi, will be a success.

  

They also expect a successful inaugural Comprehensive Economic Dialogue, Law
Enforcement and Cybersecurity Dialogue, and Social and Cultural Issues
Dialogue within this year. These dialogues, along with D&SD, form the new
China-US Comprehensive Dialogue mechanism agreed to at Mar-a-Lago.

  

The Chinese side pointed out that the two sides should have a correct view of
each other's strategic intention. China's strategic intention is clear. It is
to defend its own sovereignty, security and development interest, according to
the press release.

  

The US side expressed that it has recognized China's rapid and sustainable
development and has no intention to contain or weaken China. Rather, it is
willing to strengthen cooperation with China to develop a long-term and
constructive relationship.

  

The US side also expressed that both countries should promote peace, stability
and prosperity in the Asia-Pacific region by strengthening dialogue and
cooperation.

  

The Chinese side spoke positively of the generally stable development of the
military-to-military relationship. It called on both sides to elevate the
relationship for more constructive, practical and effective cooperation.

  

Both sides also agreed that the defense chiefs of the two countries should
exchange their visits at the earliest possible dates, plus a visit to China by
the chairman of the US Joint Chiefs of Staff.

  

The Chinese side has stressed its principle on the issues relating to Taiwan
and Tibet and the importance for the US side to keep its promise and properly
handle both issues.

  

The Chinese side also reiterated its stance on the denuclearization of the
Korean Peninsula by maintaining peace and stability and through talks and
negotiations. China urged all sides to implement relevant UN Security Council
resolutions and push for an early resumption of talks.

  

The Chinese side called for a serious consideration of China's "dual track"
and "dual suspension" proposals. The "dual suspension" calls for the
Democratic People's Republic of Korea to suspend its nuclear activities and
for the US and South Korean side to suspend their large-scale military drills.

  

China has continued to urge a halt and cancellation of the deployment of the
US THAAD missile defense system in South Korea.

The Chinese side reiterated China's undisputable sovereignty over the Nansha
Islands and their surrounding waters.

  

China and US delegates also exchanged views on counterterrorism, Afghanistan
and the Middle East.

  

![](/images/4188/6.png)

  

来源：中国日报网

筛选：红尘

编辑：沉安

  

声 明

国政学人微信公众平台系非盈利学术平台。建立初衷是方便广大学人进行学术研究，促进学术的传播和交流，不做任何商业用途。如有任何权利问题，请直接与我们联系。

  

您可能还会喜欢：

[如约而至｜国际政治经典著作书单整理（附免费下载方式！）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484047&idx=1&sn=7cbf5e66e8c4ecc1567f9259c5ddf5c5&chksm=eb3f9cc9dc4815df5dfd4d47882cb03ee5512acbfc03a57ff759a0b64aea0cd3cf5d6fc36fa8&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[期刊分享 |
国际关系相关专业所有核心期刊免费获取（最新pdf版）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484056&idx=4&sn=23e11c3222678a1409b173359f85dcb6&chksm=eb3f9cdedc4815c8aa50ea71548dfdd5c0cc40a9ea28de076ba14178d74f9e0b7a711b093821&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[学科综述 |
国际政治学学科史（全）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247483961&idx=2&sn=5e1bb06e2f8d246383f9e8174ea0076c&chksm=eb3f9c7fdc481569bcaa1581a4ece88cbe824d51e4d781d7869f341462adc7ba51e294353da7&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

  

![](/images/4188/7.jpeg)

  

