---
title: DonaldTrumpannoucedquittingclimatepact
date: 2017-06-02 22:06:55
author: 
tags: 
---


收录于合集

![](/images/4249/2.png)

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

![](/images/4249/3.gif)

  

**In quitting climate pact, has Donald Trump given China the world on a silver
platter?**

_From CNN,_ _Updated 0905 GMT (1705 HKT) June 2, 2017_

 _  
_

 _  
_

###  **Story highlights**

 **  
**

  * ### China has gone from climate "bad boy" to "de facto leader"

  * ###  US has left leadership vacuum that China's expected to fill.

  

It's been a good year for Chinese President Xi Jinping on the international
stage.

He presided over a summit on his grand plan for the world economy, charmed the
global elite at Davos and saw off the TPP, a huge trade deal that Beijing
wasn't part of.

On Thursday, US President Donald Trump handed China the keys and an extra tank
of gas -- quitting the Paris climate accord and shifting leadership of global
efforts to limit climate change to Asia.

"If you're Xi Jinping, you probably could not have written a better script for
how this year could go with Trump essentially retreating across the board on
these issues," says Christopher Balding, a professor of economics at Peking
University.

"When there's a vacuum, China will step forward and take that."

Even before Trump went public with his decision to ditch the agreement, China,
the world's second largest economy, made clear it would stick with the Paris
accord while Premier Li Keqiang met with European leaders, including German
Chancellor Angela Merkel, this week.

"With tremendous efforts, China will move towards the 2030 goal step-by-step
steadfastly," Li said Thursday.

![](/images/4249/4.jpeg)

  

### **From Climate Bad Boy to Champion?**

China hasn't always been a leading voice in the fight against climate change.
In 2009, at the Copenhagen climate talks, the country was accused of dragging
its feet. Li Shuo, a climate analyst at Greenpeace in Beijing, said China was
once considered a "climate bad boy."

Three things have changed since then, says Balding. First, reducing pollution
has become an important issue domestically -- especially among the growing
middle class. Second, China scented economic opportunity in clean energy and
pumped money into the sector.

Third, says Balding: "Scientists in China were very diligent and they said
look, climate change isn't just some Western conspiracy to keep China down.
There's valid evidence."

China has made strides in cutting emissions and promoting investment in
renewable energy but the switch away from coal has been slow -- it still
accounts for 66% of its energy mix.

The country's National Energy Administration said in January that China will
spend more than $360 billion through 2020 on renewable technologies such as
solar and wind.

China invested more than $88 billion in clean energy in 2016, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, down from an all time high of almost $120
billion in 2015, but still significantly more than the $58.8 billion invested
by the US last year.

![](/images/4249/5.jpeg)

  

"I'm hesitant to call it a true leader on climate change but it is a de facto
leader. This has fallen into its lap," Balding said.

The moral victory that the US has ceded to China gives Xi a boost at home as
well as on the global stage.

China will have its once-every-five years Communist Party National Congress
later this year when a new generation of leaders will be revealed -- a kin to
an election year in the US, says Balding.

"Being able to say that China is more important globally than it was five
years ago, that builds morale going into the Fall," he says.

  

![](/images/4249/6.jpeg)

  

### **Europe Hedging Its Bets**

The reputational and geopolitical blow that Trump has dealt to the United
States was clearly on view this week in Europe, says Li from Greenpeace.

Trump was given a frosty reception by Merkel and other European leaders at the
G7 and NATO, while the body language between Merkel and China's Premier
appeared much more comfortable.

Li is considered likely to capitalize on major policy fissures that have
emerged between Europe and the Trump administration on climate, trade and
defense.

But for all their new found passion, China and Europe make uneasy bedfellows.
There are major questions about the compatibility of their economic systems
plus flashpoints over democracy and human rights.

"I think Europe is frustrated with Trump and they want to do business with
China and have it on board with climate change but there are big differences
invalues," says a Beijing professor, who didn't want to be identified speaking
on what he described as a sensitive topic.

The professor says Trump's turn inward tarnishes the democratic model the US
has sought to project elsewhere -- at least from outside the Western world.

"Democracy, at least how its practiced, seems to be under performing in many
areas right now and it's facing harsh criticism. The reputation of China and
the China model rises because of this."

  

CNN's Serenitie Wang and James Griffiths contributed to this report.

  

_  
_

筛选：汪乐乐

编辑：敖遊

  

  

  

 **声 明**

国政学人微信公众平台系非盈利学术平台。建立初衷是方便广大学人进行学术研究，促进学术的传播和交流，不做任何商业用途。如有任何权利问题，请直接与我们联系。

您可能还会喜欢：

  

[如约而至｜国际政治经典著作书单整理（附免费下载方式！）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484047&idx=1&sn=7cbf5e66e8c4ecc1567f9259c5ddf5c5&chksm=eb3f9cc9dc4815df5dfd4d47882cb03ee5512acbfc03a57ff759a0b64aea0cd3cf5d6fc36fa8&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[期刊分享 |
国际关系相关专业所有核心期刊免费获取（最新pdf版）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484056&idx=4&sn=23e11c3222678a1409b173359f85dcb6&chksm=eb3f9cdedc4815c8aa50ea71548dfdd5c0cc40a9ea28de076ba14178d74f9e0b7a711b093821&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[如何用七天时间写一篇期刊投稿论文？你是拖延症患者吗？](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484151&idx=2&sn=beceb344e95a48a15efc15ce307797f0&chksm=eb3f9cb1dc4815a7d4b7a41a82c5f10c07c6e3f0fec0d98d91941c346c4a340c0dfa19419f49&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

  

  

<img src='/images/4249/7.jpeg' width='100%' />

  

  

  

