---
title: DougBandow:WhyIsNorthKoreatheUnitedStates’Problem?
date: 2017-05-28 22:30:25
author: 
tags: 
---


收录于合集

<img src='/images/4270/2.png' width='100%' />  

  

# **Why Is North Korea the United States’ Problem?**

  

 **Doug Bandow: Senior Fellow,Cato Institute**

Just 30 or so miles from the Demilitarized Zone, which separates South and
North Korea, sits Seoul, the political, industrial, and population heart of
the Republic of Korea. It remains vulnerable to North Korean attack, but is as
chaotic as usual. Lately it has been convulsed by a domestic political crisis,
leading to the election of a new left-wing president, Moon Jae-in, and
foreign-policy challenges, including China’s economic assault in retaliation
for deployment of the THAAD missile defense system.

<img src='/images/4270/3.png' width='700' height='445' />

  

Even more threatening, however, may be the Trump administration’s
confrontational stance toward the North. So far most South Koreans assume
President Donald Trump is bluffing with his threats of war. Even so, tensions
between the South and U.S. are likely to rise, since President Moon advocates
a much more conciliatory policy toward Pyongyang. Moreover, President Trump
admits that he doesn’t know much about foreign policy—as Chinese President Xi
Jinping learned when the latter patiently explained to his American
counterpart Beijing’s limited influence over North Korea. Anything could
happen.

Despite his ignorance, President Trump apparently is certain that Pyongyang’s
weapons programs are Washington’s problem. Why? No one outside the borders of
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea wants Kim Jong-un to have nukes at
his command. Washington officials are particularly insistent that the North
should not possess nuclear weapons atop ICBMs capable of reaching the U.S.
That prospect has pushed the Trump administration into frenetic if not
necessarily productive activity.

Yet it’s worth considering why the Kim regime is working so hard to refine its
nuclear technologies and expand its missile capabilities. Such weapons are
expensive and result in widespread international opprobrium. But they offer
important benefits as well.

Nukes would be useful in an offensive campaign against South Korea, though not
so long as the latter is defended by America. Nuclear weapons offer prestige;
otherwise no one else on earth would much care about the status of the poor,
isolated state. Nukes also provide an opportunity for extortion. Although the
message, “Send money or else,” hasn’t been working well of late.

Finally, nuclear-tipped missiles provide a powerful deterrent. Which North
Korea has good reason to believe it needs?

A quick glance at a map illustrates that the North does not threaten America.
In fact, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea has never threatened
America. The two nations do not share a land border, so Pyongyang could not
easily send its vast legions to conquer the U.S., as in the last iteration of
the movie Red Dawn. The DPRK does not have a Blue Water navy, so no armada
could invest and invade Guam, let alone Hawaii. Since North Korea possesses no
long-range bombers, Kim’s air force could not reduce U.S. cities to rubble.
And even now the North does not have ICBMs capable of reaching, let alone
accurately targeting, America.

In the normal course of events, the Kim dynasty wouldn’t give the U.S. much
thought. North Koreans certainly wouldn’t be feverishly working on weapons
designed to threaten the global superpower, which has the capability to
incinerate Pyongyang many times over.

However, Washington has been threatening the North for 67 years.

Of course, U.S. officials believe they had good reason to do so. The inter-
Korean struggle initially mattered to America because it was an important
front in the Cold War. Without U.S. intervention the Republic of Korea would
have been swallowed by Kim Il-sung’s army, disappearing into a modern form of
the Dark Ages. Even after formal hostilities ended, the U.S. presence was
initially necessary to protect the ROK, a war-ravaged, impoverished, and
unstable dictatorship.

Washington placed infantry and armored units on the North’s border, capable of
invading North Korea, as they did during the Korean War. Washington-based
aircraft throughout the region capable of bombing North Korea, as they did
during the Korean War. And Washington deployed naval vessels capable of
conducting operations against North Korea, as they did during the Korean War.
Indeed, the U.S. threatened to go to war against the DPRK whenever Washington
deemed it necessary or appropriate.

In the post-Cold War world, the threat to Pyongyang only increased. North
Korea essentially lost its allies. After the Soviet breakup, Moscow initiated
a friendly relationship with South Korea. The People’s Republic of China
followed suit. Neither would likely go to war with America on the North’s
behalf. The DPRK almost certainly would be alone in any crisis.

Moreover, Washington took on the role of global dominatrix, effectively
dividing the world into two camps: countries which bomb other countries and
countries which get bombed. And the latter group is mostly, though not
entirely, made up of countries which get bombed by the U.S.

In recent decades Washington has imposed regime change on a succession of
nations. Grenada, Panama, Haiti, Somalia (to the extent there was a regime to
change), Afghanistan, Iraq, and Libya. The U.S. became a de facto co-
belligerent with Saudi Arabia attempting to do the same in Yemen. American
officials used more limited force, mostly aid to insurgents, with less success
to do the same in Nicaragua and Syria. The U.S. went to war to prevent ethnic
Serbs from breaking up Bosnia and then intervened to break up the state of
Serbia. Even now Washington routinely threatens war against Iran.

Then there is North Korea, enemy of an American treaty ally, international
outcast, and member of the infamous Axis of Evil, with leaders loathed in
Washington. Could there be a better candidate for regime change? It is a good
example of the dictum that even paranoids have enemies.

All of which makes North Korean missile and nuclear programs a logical
response to a dangerous security environment. And explains Pyongyang’s current
focus on America, punctuated by typically hyperbolic outbursts. (In contrast,
the DPRK does not threaten to turn Moscow, Berlin, Bern, Abuja, Johannesburg,
New Delhi, Brasilia, and most other national capitals into lakes of fire.) The
Kims from DPRK founder Kim Il-sung down through grandson Kim Jong-un have
given no indication of being suicidal. They almost certainly would prefer to
stay out of America’s way. But if they can’t, then they obviously see creating
and flaunting a nuclear deterrent as the next best policy.

Put simply, Trump administration officials are running around Washington
warning that missiles, if not the sky, may end up falling because the U.S. has
chosen to intervene in the inter-Korean struggle. That involvement is a matter
of choice. America actually does not have to police every region of the globe
forever. Certainly Washington should take into account the cost in deciding on
future policy.

And that price in Korea could soon include facing a nuclear power with a
leadership that is to some degree impulsive, paranoid, and reckless. (Not so
different, ironically, than America’s present administration.) While the DPRK
would not likely attack the U.S. without provocation, what would count as the
latter?

Any attempt to destroy the North’s WMDs or decapitate the regime would
probably be reckless. Today military action would be a wild gamble because the
North possesses the conventional capability to rain death and destruction down
upon Seoul, South Korea’s capital. If the Kim regime could do the same on
American cities, preventative war would disappear as an option for U.S.
administrations.

Pyongyang might also view a much-enhanced attempt to strangle the North
economically as an existential threat. And what of conventional military
involvement by the U.S. in a conflict on the Korean peninsula, however it
began? Certainly there could be no drive to the Yalu, even after defeating
another North Korean invasion.

Indeed, the U.S. would face many of the same limits that it did when
confronting the Soviet Union. Any military action would become more dangerous,
and thus less likely, if American cities could be annihilated.

Which suggests that the U.S. should consider a dual-track response to the
North’s weapons development. First, continue discouraging North Korean
acquisition of nukes and missiles.

But even greater reliance on Beijing remains a long-shot. Pyongyang might
choose to go it alone, irrespective of the cost, and survive. Moreover, the
Trump administration has yet to assuage China’s understandable concerns over
destabilizing the North as well as contributing to Beijing’s own containment
by ultimately creating a united Korea allied with America.

Second, Washington should disengage militarily from the peninsula. South Korea
has dramatically outpaced the North on every measure of national power other
than military, and the latter remains a matter of choice. The Republic of
Korea sees no reason to spend more if Washington is willing to do so. That’s a
good deal for Seoul, but not America. At the very least the U.S. should
devolve responsibility for the ROK’s conventional defense onto the ROK. Doing
so would eliminate an important scenario for confrontation with a nuclear-
armed North and opportunity for tensions with different governments in the
South.

Moreover, Washington should consider the heretofore unthinkable: a South
Korean nuclear deterrent to the North. Certainly that’s not a desirable
outcome, but dealing with the DPRK yields only second-best solutions. For
America, nothing at stake in the Korean peninsula is worth nuclear war. The
U.S. should not consider sacrificing Los Angeles or Seattle for Seoul—or
Tokyo, for that matter. If such a trade becomes a real (though still,
hopefully, unlikely) possibility, Washington policymakers have an obligation
to the American people to rethink current policy.

A nuclear North Korea is bad news. One capable of striking America is even
more dangerous. But by intervening in the Korean peninsula Washington helped
create and sustain the DPRK nuclear threat. Instead of threatening war, the
Trump administration should take a military step back. The price of America’s
reflexive defense of populous and prosperous allies is getting much higher.

 **This article appeared onAmerican Conservative on May 11, 2017.**

  

  

![](/images/4270/4.png)

来源：中美聚焦

筛选：姜永鸿

编辑：麦田里的宋雨桐

  

 **声 明**

国政学人微信公众平台系非盈利学术平台。建立初衷是方便广大学人进行学术研究，促进学术的传播和交流，不做任何商业用途。如有任何权利问题，请直接与我们联系。

  

您可能还会喜欢：

[如约而至｜国际政治经典著作书单整理（附免费下载方式！）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484047&idx=1&sn=7cbf5e66e8c4ecc1567f9259c5ddf5c5&chksm=eb3f9cc9dc4815df5dfd4d47882cb03ee5512acbfc03a57ff759a0b64aea0cd3cf5d6fc36fa8&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[期刊分享 |
国际关系相关专业所有核心期刊免费获取（最新pdf版）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484056&idx=4&sn=23e11c3222678a1409b173359f85dcb6&chksm=eb3f9cdedc4815c8aa50ea71548dfdd5c0cc40a9ea28de076ba14178d74f9e0b7a711b093821&scene=21#wechat_redirect)  

[科普 |
秦晖：极左、左派、右派、极右的区分与现状](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484129&idx=1&sn=b4819efcf421a202fe5000359d0ef690&chksm=eb3f9ca7dc4815b1fddd880e2813515080e9f23e1049089bd9db87260e729551cd43c7619a34&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[学科综述 |
国际政治学学科史（全）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247483961&idx=2&sn=5e1bb06e2f8d246383f9e8174ea0076c&chksm=eb3f9c7fdc481569bcaa1581a4ece88cbe824d51e4d781d7869f341462adc7ba51e294353da7&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[如何用七天时间写一篇期刊投稿论文？你是拖延症患者吗？](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484151&idx=2&sn=beceb344e95a48a15efc15ce307797f0&chksm=eb3f9cb1dc4815a7d4b7a41a82c5f10c07c6e3f0fec0d98d91941c346c4a340c0dfa19419f49&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[学术方法 |
社会科学研究中的文献综述：原则、结构和问题](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484201&idx=3&sn=2b9aa0f06a89ed149a5f455401965d41&chksm=eb3f9d6fdc481479e554f8a3519dfd12446d5100a44584567d2d191535c29584a2835d768a23&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

  

<img src='/images/4270/5.png' width='100%' />

