---
title: FourArabnationscuttieswithQatar
date: 2017-06-05 21:59:37
author: 
tags: 
---


收录于合集

![](/images/4239/2.png)

  

Saudi Arabia has led a group of four Arab states cutting off diplomatic ties
with their neighbouring Gulf state of Qatar, declaring that Doha’s regional
policies fuel extremism and terrorism.  

![](/images/4239/3.jpeg)

资料图：中东地图  

  

Egypt, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain on Tuesday also said they would
sever diplomatic ties with Qatar.

Qatar, which admits to backing some Islamist movements, denies that it
supports terrorism.

The Saudi news agency, citing an official source, said Saudi Arabia was
severing diplomatic ties for the “protection of national security from the
dangers of terrorism and extremism”. The kingdom would also cut land, sea and
air routes to Qatar, encouraging other states to do the same, it added.

![](/images/4239/4.jpeg)

资料图：卡塔尔国旗  

The expulsion of diplomats revives memories of a similar spat in 2014, when
Riyadh, Abu Dhabi and Manama united against Doha for its support of Islamist
movements.

Ties frayed last week when Saudi and Emirati-owned media carried comments
allegedly made by Qatari Emir Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani, which were interpreted
as being supportive of Iran and Islamist movements.

  

Qatar said the statements, the result of a hacking incident, were false – an
explanation questioned by Saudi and UAE media.

A media war of words has since erupted across the Gulf. Qatar’s popular Al
Jazeera satellite TV station and website have been blocked in Saudi Arabia,
the UAE and Bahrain.

Bahrain’s state news agency said in a statement on its web site that Qatar
continued to “undermine the security and stability of the Kingdom of Bahrain
and to interfere in its domestic affairs”, to support “acts of terror”, and to
finance “armed groups associated with Iran to carry out subversive attacks and
spread chaos in the Kingdom”.

Bahrain has given its diplomats 48 hours to leave Qatar.

Article From ： **Financial Times**  

Editor ：Adrian Li

  

您可能还会喜欢：

[如约而至｜国际政治经典著作书单整理（附免费下载方式！）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484047&idx=1&sn=7cbf5e66e8c4ecc1567f9259c5ddf5c5&chksm=eb3f9cc9dc4815df5dfd4d47882cb03ee5512acbfc03a57ff759a0b64aea0cd3cf5d6fc36fa8&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[期刊分享 |
国际关系相关专业所有核心期刊免费获取（最新pdf版）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484056&idx=4&sn=23e11c3222678a1409b173359f85dcb6&chksm=eb3f9cdedc4815c8aa50ea71548dfdd5c0cc40a9ea28de076ba14178d74f9e0b7a711b093821&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[学科综述 |
国际政治学学科史（全）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247483961&idx=2&sn=5e1bb06e2f8d246383f9e8174ea0076c&chksm=eb3f9c7fdc481569bcaa1581a4ece88cbe824d51e4d781d7869f341462adc7ba51e294353da7&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

  

<img src='/images/4239/5.jpeg' width='100%' />

  

  

