---
title: FredHiatt:So,let'ssayTrumpgetsimpeached.Thenwhat?
date: 2017-05-22 22:28:36
author: 
tags: 
---


收录于合集

![](/images/4288/2.png)

**  
**

**So, let‘s say Trump gets impeached. Then what?**

  

By

Fred Hiatt Editorial Page Editor

May 21 at 7:48 PM

![](/images/4288/3.jpeg)

（President Trump in the White House on April 19）

  

To everyone dreaming of a quick and easy impeachment:

What do you imagine happens the day after?  

Passions subside. President Pence begins his orderly reign. Donald Trump
retreats to Mar-a-Lago. Normalcy returns.  

That’s about what you have in mind, right?  

Dream on.  

![](/images/4288/4.png)Here’s a likelier scenario: Trump goes to Mar-a-Lago to
regroup, not retreat. Early in the morning, he tweets: “Join me on Day One of
our campaign to reverse the most corrupt theft in political history and
reclaim the White House in 2020.” His supporters vow to reverse the coup
d’etat.  

And the wars intensify.  

Impeachment should not be ruled out. If special counsel Robert S. Mueller III
gathers evidence of high crimes and misdemeanors, Congress should proceed,
regardless of partisan advantage or political fallout.  

But Trump opponents are kidding themselves if they think that sacking him will
restore comity and peace to the nation.  

And they are dodging the work they need to do if they let a focus on
impeachment or removal under the 25th Amendment keep them from offering
solutions to problems that contributed to Trump’s victory.  

Impeachment has been and should be considered a “drastic remedy,” as attorney
Gregory Craig called it when he was defending President Bill Clinton before
the House Judiciary Committee in 1998.  

Trump was legitimately elected by Americans who knew they were voting for an
inexperienced, bombastic, intermittently truthful, thin-skinned, race-baiting
businessman. If Trump turns out to be an inexperienced, bombastic,
intermittently truthful, thin-skinned, race-baiting president, that should not
come as a surprise. Nor is it grounds for impeachment.  

Even if Trump turns out to be worse than feared, a failure, a disappointment
even to his voters, someone who would, say, boorishly disparage America’s FBI
chief as a “nut job” while speaking to America’s adversaries — even that would
not be grounds for impeachment. The remedy for poor performance is not to
reelect. It is a decision for the voters.

![](/images/4288/5.png)  

Impeachment (by the House) and conviction (by a two-thirds vote in the Senate)
would stoke, not calm, political anger. Even if some of his voters felt let
down by his performance, many would see his removal from office as an
undemocratic short-circuiting of the process. Already his reelection committee
is claiming that Trump is a victim of “sabotage”

.

“You already knew the media was out to get us,” a recent fundraising email
began. “But sadly it’s not just the fake news. . . . There are people within
our own unelected bureaucracy that want to sabotage President Trump and our
entire America First movement.”

  

![](/images/4288/6.gif)  

Would Trump, if convicted by the Senate, stage a run for redemption in 2020,
fueling and feeding on that kind of paranoia? That would depend on many
factors, including whether Congress chose to bar him from future service,
which it is allowed but not required to do in an impeachment trial.  

But certainly many among the 46 percent of the electorate who rallied to
Trump’s side in order to “drain the swamp” of Washington elitism would not
subside quietly if the swamp, as they saw it, swallowed him. Maybe their
candidate would be Donald Jr. or Eric Trump, who last week tweeted, “This
entire thing is a witch hunt propagated by a failed political campaign.” Maybe
they would find another champion.  

What’s least conceivable is that they, and other voters, would suddenly be
satisfied again with the old Republican and Democratic parties. Which is why
Trump opponents can’t afford to think that getting rid of Trump is all they
need to do.  

![](/images/4288/7.jpeg)  

Neera Tanden and Matt Browne noted that Emmanuel Macron did not win his
landslide victory simply by stressing the danger of electing his populist,
Russia-sympathizing opponent, Marine Le Pen. Although many observers said
Macron lacked a substantive platform, Tanden, who is president and chief
executive of the liberal think tank Center for American Progress, and Browne,
a senior fellow there, argued that Macron actually set out a “bold agenda” for
political reform.  

“For progressives in the United States, this is a critical lesson,” Tanden and
Browne wrote. To rebut the politics of “ethno-nationalist populism”
progressives need to offer more than opposition — they need “an aggressive
agenda for political reform.”  

We are far from knowing the whole story of Russia’s intervention in the 2016
election, its relationship over the years with Trump and his businesses, and
the administration’s possible efforts to keep the truth from emerging. The
country needs Mueller and members of Congress, of both parties, working
overtime to expose that story.  

But the country also needs to beware of the fantasy that the nation’s
problems, and the Democratic Party’s, could be solved if only that one man
could magically be made to disappear.  

(本文选自华盛顿邮报，附视频网址：（也可点击左下角 **阅读原文** 查看）  

https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/so-lets-say-trump-gets-impeached-then-
what/2017/05/21/40f81c74-3cb6-11e7-a058-ddbb23c75d82_story.html?hpid=hp_no-
name_opinion-card-e%3Ahomepage%2Fstory&amp;utm_term=.085627713a66）

编辑：维君

* * *

您可能还会喜欢：

[如约而至｜国际政治经典著作书单整理（附免费下载方式！）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484047&idx=1&sn=7cbf5e66e8c4ecc1567f9259c5ddf5c5&chksm=eb3f9cc9dc4815df5dfd4d47882cb03ee5512acbfc03a57ff759a0b64aea0cd3cf5d6fc36fa8&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[期刊分享 |
国际关系相关专业所有核心期刊免费获取（最新pdf版）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484056&idx=4&sn=23e11c3222678a1409b173359f85dcb6&chksm=eb3f9cdedc4815c8aa50ea71548dfdd5c0cc40a9ea28de076ba14178d74f9e0b7a711b093821&scene=21#wechat_redirect)  

[科普 |
秦晖：极左、左派、右派、极右的区分与现状](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484129&idx=1&sn=b4819efcf421a202fe5000359d0ef690&chksm=eb3f9ca7dc4815b1fddd880e2813515080e9f23e1049089bd9db87260e729551cd43c7619a34&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[学科综述 |
国际政治学学科史（全）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247483961&idx=2&sn=5e1bb06e2f8d246383f9e8174ea0076c&chksm=eb3f9c7fdc481569bcaa1581a4ece88cbe824d51e4d781d7869f341462adc7ba51e294353da7&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[如何用七天时间写一篇期刊投稿论文？你是拖延症患者吗？](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484151&idx=2&sn=beceb344e95a48a15efc15ce307797f0&chksm=eb3f9cb1dc4815a7d4b7a41a82c5f10c07c6e3f0fec0d98d91941c346c4a340c0dfa19419f49&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[学术方法 |
社会科学研究中的文献综述：原则、结构和问题](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484201&idx=3&sn=2b9aa0f06a89ed149a5f455401965d41&chksm=eb3f9d6fdc481479e554f8a3519dfd12446d5100a44584567d2d191535c29584a2835d768a23&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

![](/images/4288/8.png)

