---
title: IndiaObjectstoChina'sBeltandRoadInitiative
date: 2017-05-29 19:25:48
author: 
tags: 
---


收录于合集

![](/images/4267/2.png)

  

# **India Objects to China's Belt and Road Initiative**

#  **—and It Has a Point**

  

Alyssa Ayres：Senior Fellow for India, Pakistan, and South Asia

  

The grandiose Belt and Road Forum—a symbol of China’s foreign policy stepping-
out as a global connectivity visionary—kicked off on May 14 with a notable
absentee: India.

  

![](/images/4267/3.jpeg)

  

On May 13, India’s Ministry of External Affairs released its formal response
to a question about Indian representation at the Belt and Road Forum, attended
by “nearly three dozen” heads of state and dozens of senior officials from
around the world. It’s worth reading in full.

  

The statement abandons the typical language Indian officialdom crafts to be as
inoffensive as possible to the greatest number of countries. Citing India’s
commitment to physical connectivity “in an equitable and balanced manner,” the
statement itemizes a series of principles for infrastructure projects that
sound like a World Bank investment monitoring report:

  

  * “must be based on universally recognized international norms, good governance, rule of law, openness, transparency and equality”

  * “must follow principles of financial responsibility to avoid projects that would create unsustainable debt burden for communities”

  * “balanced ecological and environmental protection and preservation standards”

  * “transparent assessment of project costs”

  * “skill and technology transfer to help long term running and maintenance of the assets created by local communities”

  * “must be pursued in a manner that respects sovereignty and territorial integrity”

  

India obviously believes that Belt and Road projects do not meet the above
criteria.

  

India’s statement also closes with a kicker focused on the China-Pakistan
Economic Corridor (CPEC): “No country can accept a project that ignores its
core concerns on sovereignty and territorial integrity.”

  

![](/images/4267/4.png)

  

India’s objections to CPEC have been repeated and vocal. The crux of the issue
concerns the transit pathway that will link western China to the plains of
Pakistan and then through to a new deep-water port at Gwadar. The only way to
get from western China to the heart of Pakistan is through the Karakoram
Highway, a high-altitude transport corridor that in many ways could be called
the twentieth-century blueprint for the Belt and Road Initiative. The highway
was built by China and Pakistan, beginning back in 1959. It opened in 1979.

  

The highway runs through territory now called Gilgit-Baltistan (earlier termed
the “Northern Areas”) that was originally part of the princely state of Jammu
and Kashmir. India and Pakistan both claim the entirety of the former princely
state of Jammu and Kashmir, though it is Pakistan’s claims to the Srinagar
Valley that tend to occupy international public attention as the “Kashmir
Conflict,” not Indian claims to other parts of the territory which Pakistan
presently administers. (The history of this territory is complex; for
historical details, see Cabeiri deBergh Robinson’srecent book.)

  

This territory and its history explain the objection to CPEC, but India’s
public statement also noted concern for “financial responsibility to avoid
projects that would create unsustainable debt burden for communities.”

  

Here, too, the China-sponsored infrastructure developments in neighboring Sri
Lanka offer an instructive lesson. Numerous infrastructure projects,
negotiated in secret by the former Sri Lankan government of Mahinda Rajapaksa,
saddled the Sri Lankan treasury with debts to China estimated at some $8
billion. Sri Lanka cannot repay what it owes, so it has negotiated a debt-for-
equity swap of the Hambantota Port project. This has led to protests in the
country.

  

With other projects financed by China proliferating, under unclear terms and
with the prospect of similar bills due down the line, India’s external affairs
ministry has a good point. China’s Belt and Road Initiative is not a gift to
the world. It is a vision that has a price tag—known to Beijing. That lesson
is worth remembering.

  

But whatever the merit in India’s view, the global response to the forum shows
that it has few takers for the moment.

  

Blog Post by Alyssa Ayres

Last updated May 17, 2017

This post originally appeared on Forbes.com.  

  

![](/images/4267/5.png)

  

来源：美国对外关系委员会

（Council on Foreign Relations, CFR）

筛选：汪乐乐

编辑：沉安

  

 **声 明**

国政学人微信公众平台系非盈利学术平台。建立之初衷是方便广大学人进行学术研究，促进学术的传播和交流，不做任何商业用途。如有任何权利问题，请直接与我们联系。

您可能还会喜欢：

[如约而至｜国际政治经典著作书单整理（附免费下载方式！）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484047&idx=1&sn=7cbf5e66e8c4ecc1567f9259c5ddf5c5&chksm=eb3f9cc9dc4815df5dfd4d47882cb03ee5512acbfc03a57ff759a0b64aea0cd3cf5d6fc36fa8&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[期刊分享 |
国际关系相关专业所有核心期刊免费获取（最新pdf版）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484056&idx=4&sn=23e11c3222678a1409b173359f85dcb6&chksm=eb3f9cdedc4815c8aa50ea71548dfdd5c0cc40a9ea28de076ba14178d74f9e0b7a711b093821&scene=21#wechat_redirect)  

[科普 |
秦晖：极左、左派、右派、极右的区分与现状](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484129&idx=1&sn=b4819efcf421a202fe5000359d0ef690&chksm=eb3f9ca7dc4815b1fddd880e2813515080e9f23e1049089bd9db87260e729551cd43c7619a34&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[学科综述 |
国际政治学学科史（全）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247483961&idx=2&sn=5e1bb06e2f8d246383f9e8174ea0076c&chksm=eb3f9c7fdc481569bcaa1581a4ece88cbe824d51e4d781d7869f341462adc7ba51e294353da7&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[如何用七天时间写一篇期刊投稿论文？你是拖延症患者吗？](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484151&idx=2&sn=beceb344e95a48a15efc15ce307797f0&chksm=eb3f9cb1dc4815a7d4b7a41a82c5f10c07c6e3f0fec0d98d91941c346c4a340c0dfa19419f49&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[学术方法 |
社会科学研究中的文献综述：原则、结构和问题](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484201&idx=3&sn=2b9aa0f06a89ed149a5f455401965d41&chksm=eb3f9d6fdc481479e554f8a3519dfd12446d5100a44584567d2d191535c29584a2835d768a23&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

  

<img src='/images/4267/6.jpeg' width='100%' />

