---
title: Li'svisitraiseshopesofstrongerSino-EUties
date: 2017-06-01 22:36:13
author: 
tags: 
---


收录于合集

![](/images/4253/2.png)

  

Jiang Shixue ：Distinguished Professor at Shanghai University

Article From : China Daily

  

Premier Li Keqiang began his four-day visit to Germany and Belgium on
Wednesday, during which he is scheduled to attend the annual meeting with
German chancellor and the 19th China-EU leaders' meeting.

![](/images/4253/3.jpeg)

Whether Beijing and Brussels can shelve their differences and what the latter
can do with its "normative power" to strengthen Sino-EU ties will be closely
watched during Li's visit.  

How the EU member states can get better involved in the Belt and Road
Initiative (the Silk Road Economic Belt and the 21st Century Maritime Silk
Road), too, is high on the agenda of the China-EU meeting.

Brussels' concerns over Beijing's proposals on China-EU cooperation on the
Belt and Road Initiative are uncalled for. As President Xi Jinping emphasized
in his opening speech at the Beijing forum, the implementation of the Belt and
Road Initiative, which draws inspiration from the ancient Silk Road, is open
to all economies and its focus is on the Eurasian and African markets. It also
encourages extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits,
leaving enough room and incentives for the EU's participation even though its
demand for infrastructure is limited.

Li's visit comes at a time when the post-Brexit EU has been struggling to move
toward greater integration. The fear that the departure of the United Kingdom
from the EU could prompt other countries to pull out of the bloc has cast a
shadow over European unity, with the leadership changes in some EU member
states signaling more uncertainty.

Since Beijing and Brussels established a comprehensive strategic partnership
in 2003, China has become the EU's second-largest trade partner and the
largest source of imports, and the EU the largest trade partner of China. That
Beijing welcomes a more unified, stable, and prosperous EU, to some extent,
may help the bloc tide over the crisis. China highly values the strategic
significance of the EU and intends to keep strengthening their partnership in
maintaining global peace and economic growth, and boosting reform.

At his meeting with EU leaders, Li is expected to reiterate China's commitment
to promoting a multipolar world order and optimizing global governance with
the help of the EU, and discuss ways of upgrading China-EU trade ties.

Last year, China-EU trade declined 3.1 percent because of fluctuations in the
global market and the depreciation of the euro, but the EU's investment in
China increased, adding fresh impetus to the two sides' endorsement of free
trade and fairer economic governance. It is hoped that in the days to come
leaders from both sides will expedite negotiations for a two-way investment
treaty and to reduce anti-dumping disputes.

  

 **筛选：沉安**

 **编辑：里仝**

 **  
**

![](/images/4253/4.png)

  

