---
title: Risk,RebalancingandReward
date: 2017-06-07 22:23:09
author: 
tags: 
---


收录于合集

![](/images/4232/2.png)

# Risk, Rebalancing and Reward

P. Elisabeth Smits

PhD candidate, Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS),
Johns Hopkins University

  

![](/images/4232/3.png)

  

  

It was big news when the United Kingdom, followed quickly by other European
nations, announced in March 2015 that it intended to be a founding member of
the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB). After all, this was a
Chinese-led initiative that some considered to be a direct challenge to the
Asian Development Bank and the World Bank — and perhaps a first step in a
Chinese effort to undermine the Bretton Woods system dominated by the West.
And the United States, while expressing that it “stands ready to welcome new
institutions into the international development architecture,” had not only
clearly signalled that it was not going to join, it apparently had discouraged
G7 members and allies from joining. Nonetheless, by April 15, 30 countries had
joined the original 21 Asian applicants to be counted among the founders,
including U.S. allies such as the U.K., Germany, France, Israel, South Korea,
Australia and the Netherlands.

![](/images/4232/4.jpeg)

General agreement among experts and media was that for the Obama
Administration, this was a “debacle,” as Elizabeth Economy opined. The U.S.,
she argued, should have joined the bank or at least welcomed it, along with
the participation of others. Opposition was making the United States look
weak.

  

Most of the discussion around the launch of the AIIB was focused on the
U.S.-China relationship, China’s efforts to impact global institutions and
governance through the AIIB, and the different approaches that the United
States, other nations, and multilateral development banks have taken in
response to this initiative. What if we look at it from the point of view of
the British, French, and Germans who joined as founding members? Does this
case suggest that major American allies were starting to turn towards China at
the expense of the transatlantic relationship?

  

I would argue that it does not. Rather, three main factors influenced the
decisions of France, Germany and the United Kingdom to join the AIIB: risk,
rebalancing, and reward. The level of risk involved in contravening any U.S.
request not to get involved was low because becoming a founding member of the
AIIB did not threaten U.S. national interests, much less their own national
interests. Rebalancing was a factor because although all three countries
remained firm in their alliances with the United States, they had consistently
expressed support for China playing a larger role in global governance; the
decision to join the AIIB was a logical expression of their approach. Finally,
the potential reward for joining the bank was considerable, as all three
nations were keen to continue to extract economic benefits from positive
relations with China. Because of this combination of factors, the decision to
join the AIIB should be interpreted not as a fundamental break with the United
States, but rather as representing a continuation of an approach that was
already in place. Two years on, we see that divergence of views on the AIIB
between the U.S. and France, Germany, and the U.K. did not cause lasting harm
to the transatlantic relationship that has been a bedrock of the post-war
period.

  

 **Has the situation changed in the Trump era?**

After President Trump’s recent visit to Europe, Washington and the rest of the
world have been busy analyzing the transatlantic relationship and where it may
be headed. German Chancellor Angela Merkel’scomments after the G7 summit that
“the times when we can fully rely on others have passed us by a little bit”
are perhaps the first indicators that the nature of this partnership is in
transition.

  

European and U.S. relationships with China did not appear to be high on the
agenda during this trip, but at least one topic was discussed where China and
Europe currently share views that are apparently not held by Washington: the
Paris climate accords. Chancellor Merkel, in fact, called the talks with
President Trump on this topic “very unsatisfying.” President Xi Jinping,
however, has been vocal on his support for the Paris Agreement, pledging his
support earlier this month during a phone call to the new French President
Emmanuel Macron, who in turn told Trump on May 25 that the Agreement was
important for France and the international community, urging him not to make
any “hasty” decision to pull the U.S. out of the accords.

  

Just as in the AIIB founding membership case, the rewards for Europe to align
with China on the Paris Agreement rather than the U.S. are tempting: they
believe that this is a crucial step towards stopping, if not reversing,
climate change and adapting to its effects. In addition, Germany, France, the
U.K. and other U.S. allies have welcomed China’s role as a committed partner
in the Paris Agreement. Rebalancing in this case, as with the AIIB, is not
about turning away from alliances, but rather is a recognition of the benefits
of developing and developed nations working together on issues of regional and
global import.

  

When it comes to risk, however, the situation might be different for the
climate accords. The decision of European allies to become founding members of
the AIIB did not put U.S. security interests at risk. Perhaps because the
Paris goals can touch on issues of national energy security, differences
between approaches may cause tensions across the Atlantic. Here it will be
interesting to see how the U.S.-Europe-China dynamic becomes a factor, if it
at all.

  

 **A signal for Washington**

  

The AIIB case suggests that in situations where risk is minimal and rewards
are tempting—and if U.S. allies continue to believe that having China be a
more engaged global player is good for global stability and growth—European
nations might be expected to disagree with Washington and align with China.
The transatlantic relationship is facing new challenges today, while
opportunities for Europe and China to cooperate ­– such as climate change and
the Belt and Road Initiative ­– are significant. The mix of risk, rebalancing,
and reward in these situations could prove to be an important factor in how
Europe acts if faced with choices between Washington and Beijing.

  

来源：China&Us Focus

筛选：红尘

编辑：鑫辰

  

 **声 明**

国政学人微信公众平台系非盈利学术平台。建立初衷是方便广大学人进行学术研究，促进学术的传播和交流，不做任何商业用途。如有任何权利问题，请直接与我们联系。

  

您可能还会喜欢：

[如约而至｜国际政治经典著作书单整理（附免费下载方式！）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484047&idx=1&sn=7cbf5e66e8c4ecc1567f9259c5ddf5c5&chksm=eb3f9cc9dc4815df5dfd4d47882cb03ee5512acbfc03a57ff759a0b64aea0cd3cf5d6fc36fa8&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[期刊分享 |
国际关系相关专业所有核心期刊免费获取（最新pdf版）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484056&idx=4&sn=23e11c3222678a1409b173359f85dcb6&chksm=eb3f9cdedc4815c8aa50ea71548dfdd5c0cc40a9ea28de076ba14178d74f9e0b7a711b093821&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[学科综述 |
国际政治学学科史（全）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247483961&idx=2&sn=5e1bb06e2f8d246383f9e8174ea0076c&chksm=eb3f9c7fdc481569bcaa1581a4ece88cbe824d51e4d781d7869f341462adc7ba51e294353da7&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

  

  

<img src='/images/4232/5.png' width='100%' />

  

