---
title: USalliesto'bearwithus'amidbacklashoverisolationism
date: 2017-06-07 22:23:09
author: 
tags: 
---


收录于合集

![](/images/4233/2.png)

# **James Mattis asks US allies to 'bear with us' amid backlash over
isolationism**

  

 **Defense secretary James Mattis at a summit in Singapore, where he faced
questions in the wake of Trump’s decision to withdraw from the Paris climate
accord.**

![](/images/4233/3.png)

![](/images/4233/4.jpeg)

  

  

  

  

![](/images/4233/5.png)

US secretary of defense James Mattis has urged allies to “bear with us”,
noting it would be a “crummy world” if Americans retreated into isolationism.

Mattis was responding to questions at a conference in Singapore about US
leadership and commitment to a rules-based international order, in the wake of
Donald Trump’s announcement that his administration will leave the Paris
climate change accord, putting the country in the company of only Nicaragua
and Syria.

“As far as the rules-based order, you know, obviously we have a new president
in Washington DC,” Mattis said at the event organised by the International
Institute for Strategic Studies. “We’re all aware of that. And there is going
to be fresh approaches taken.”

He defended Trump, pointing out that the president had just made his first
foreign trip, “straight into the heart of one of the most bewildering and
difficult challenges” in the Middle East. However, the defense secretary did
acknowledge a historical “reluctance” among Americans to engage with the
world.

“The 20th century took us out of that,” he said. “What a crummy world if we
all retreat inside our own borders. How many people deprived of good lives
during the Depression? How many tens of millions of people killed in WWII?
Like it or not, we’re part of the world.”

Mattis said that though there was a sense among some Americans that the
country was bearing “an inordinate burden”, global engagement was still “very
deeply rooted in the American psyche”.

“Bear with us,” he said before going to paraphrase a quote from Winston
Churchill: “Once we’ve exhausted all possible alternatives, the Americans will
do the right thing.”

Kori Schake, a Stanford University defense expert who has co-edited a book
with Mattis on the relationship between the US military and civilians, said he
had given “a speech replete with the reassurances America’s Asian allies
crave: the importance of a rules-based international order, America’s enduring
commitment to its allies and willingness to run risks for our common security,
centrality of values in our alliance relationships”.

“Yet despite the enormous admiration allies have for Mattis, every question
was some version of, ‘How can we believe you when the president talks and acts
so differently?’ added Schake, who was a senior defense official in the Bush
administration.

Mattis did not directly address the decision to leave the Paris accord, but
during the administration’s internal debate on the issue he said it was not
really his job to intervene in the argument.

“Frankly, it’s not inside my portfolio, that aspect,” he told CBS News last
weekend. “Obviously we deal with the aspects of a warming climate in the
Department of Defense, and to us, that’s just another one of many factors we
deal with which we call the physical environment.”

Past Pentagon and intelligence community assessments have presented climate
change as a serious long term threat to national security.

A former senior official in the national security council, Loren DeJonge
Schulman, said the White House debate did not seem to have been carried out in
a very organised way, with no representations from the Pentagon and not much
science.  

“No one appeared to be in charge of running the debate,” Schulman, now at the
Centre for a New American Security, said on Twitter.

“That matters for a few reasons: no one was ensuring that all perspectives
were included. Mattis called this not his job jar, but [the defense
department] and [intelligence community] have each commented, across admins,
on costly and risky impacts of climate change ...

“But most importantly: we had no scientists with a real voice in the room.”

![](/images/4233/6.png)

  

来源：the Guardian

筛选：红尘

编辑：鑫辰

  

 **声 明**

国政学人微信公众平台系非盈利学术平台。建立初衷是方便广大学人进行学术研究，促进学术的传播和交流，不做任何商业用途。如有任何权利问题，请直接与我们联系。

您可能还会喜欢：

[如约而至｜国际政治经典著作书单整理（附免费下载方式！）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484047&idx=1&sn=7cbf5e66e8c4ecc1567f9259c5ddf5c5&chksm=eb3f9cc9dc4815df5dfd4d47882cb03ee5512acbfc03a57ff759a0b64aea0cd3cf5d6fc36fa8&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[期刊分享 |
国际关系相关专业所有核心期刊免费获取（最新pdf版）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484056&idx=4&sn=23e11c3222678a1409b173359f85dcb6&chksm=eb3f9cdedc4815c8aa50ea71548dfdd5c0cc40a9ea28de076ba14178d74f9e0b7a711b093821&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[学科综述 |
国际政治学学科史（全）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247483961&idx=2&sn=5e1bb06e2f8d246383f9e8174ea0076c&chksm=eb3f9c7fdc481569bcaa1581a4ece88cbe824d51e4d781d7869f341462adc7ba51e294353da7&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

<img src='/images/4233/7.png' width='100%' />

  

