---
title: WuSike：“双轨”政策仍旧是半岛长期和平与稳定的最佳选择
date: 2017-06-23 22:06:44
author: 
tags: 
---


收录于合集

![](/images/4178/2.png)

  

Korean “Dual Track” Still Best Option for Long-term Peace and Stability

  

Wu Sike

Member on Foreign Affairs Committee, CPPCC

  

![](/images/4178/3.jpeg)

  

To further complicate the situation on the Korean Peninsula, North Korea fired
a new surface-to-ship cruise missile on June 8. According to the country’s
Central News Agency, the projectile developed by the Academy of Sciences for
National Defense was a “success”.

  

On June 10, the Rodong Sinmun, the official newspaper of the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea, carried an editorial claiming that the recent
tests of “strategic weapons”, including the new missile, indicate that the
country’s weaponry researches have developed rapidly and nearly reached the
“strategic goal” of firing an intercontinental ballistic missile. The imminent
ICBM launch, the paper said, “will be a historical milestone marking the
failure of America’s hostility towards Korea.”

  

The International Atomic Energy Agency published its 2016 annual report on
June 12, expressing concerns over Pyongyang’s continuation of nuclear
activities.

  

Against this backdrop, South Korean President Moon Jae-in offered to start an
unconditional dialogue with Pyongyang so long as the North does not take new
provocative moves with nuclear missiles. In a speech delivered on June 15
marking the 17 anniversary of the publication of the June 15 Joint
Declaration, Moon said the dialogue could discuss such issues as Pyongyang
completely renouncing nuclear development, establishment of a peninsular peace
mechanism and normalization of North Korea-US relations. A few days earlier,
the North’s Commission for Peaceful Unification of Fatherland put forward
three principles for developing North-South relations, namely national
independence, extinguishing hostility towards compatriots and defusing
military tension. These positive messages from both sides brought hope of a
reversal of the tensing situation on the Korean Peninsula.

  

Since North Korea carried out two nuclear tests last year and Kim Jong-un
announced in his New Year’s Day message that Pyongyang’s ICBM development had
“entered the final stage”, the country has conducted nine missile launches,
including three right in the month of Moon’s assumption of office – the “Mars
12” mid-and-long-range ballistic missile on May 14, the “North Star II” mid-
range ballistic missile on the 21st and the “Scud” short-range ballistic
missile on the 29th.

  

The grim situation forces one to think: What is the right way to realize
lasting stability and peace on the peninsula and in Northeast Asia? The Korean
War Armistice Agreement was signed on July 27, 1953. Who among those present
at the signing ceremony would envisage that the armistice would stay unchanged
64 years later? The long-lasting yet flimsy armistice has generated a sense of
insecurity, leading to alternating spirals of military flare-ups and nuclear
tests, which seriously threaten regional and global security and stability.

  

In the final analysis, the repeated cycles of tension on the peninsula stems
from the Cold War mentality and the state of armistice that still shroud the
peninsula. That calls for an effort to study the peninsular situation and the
North Korean nuclear issue from global, historical and regional perspectives
and seek a final solution to the two problems of nuclear arms and a peaceful
regime for both Koreas.

  

The crisis that has lasted for more than half a century has become the only
“living fossil” of the Cold War period and the only existent state of war.

  

The situation has a direct impact on Asia’s security, peace and development.
Chinese President Xi Jinping put forward a novel concept in May 2014, which
called for establishing “common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable”
security for Asia. Based on this concept, China suggested to both sides on the
Korean Peninsula a “double-track” mindset and a “dual suspension” solution and
urged them to change from confrontation to dialogue.

  

After both sides released positive messages on peninsular peace recently,
China immediately welcomed the moves, saying that efforts to improve relations
and seek reconciliation serve the fundamental interests of both sides as one
nation, as well as help promote peace and development in the region. Pyongyang
insists that its tenacious effort to develop nuclear weapons is due to
Washington’s hostility towards it. Therefore, China is happy to see, and
support, both parties going into dialogue to increase mutual understanding and
trust. China hopes that they take decisive and constructive moves to settle
the problem through dialogues and negotiations.

  

The two Koreas and other relevant parties should focus their concern on
peninsular, Asian and global peace and return to the negotiation table to
create a new peace regime on “dual tracks”. This will help the peninsula,
Northeast Asia and the whole Asian region realize permanent stability and
peaceful development.

  

![](/images/4178/4.png)

来源：中美聚焦

筛选：红尘

编辑：晞哲

  

声 明

国政学人微信公众平台系非盈利学术平台。建立初衷是方便广大学人进行学术研究，促进学术的传播和交流，不做任何商业用途。如有任何权利问题，请直接与我们联系。

  

您可能还会喜欢：

[如约而至｜国际政治经典著作书单整理（附免费下载方式！）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484047&idx=1&sn=7cbf5e66e8c4ecc1567f9259c5ddf5c5&chksm=eb3f9cc9dc4815df5dfd4d47882cb03ee5512acbfc03a57ff759a0b64aea0cd3cf5d6fc36fa8&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[期刊分享 |
国际关系相关专业所有核心期刊免费获取（最新pdf版）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484056&idx=4&sn=23e11c3222678a1409b173359f85dcb6&chksm=eb3f9cdedc4815c8aa50ea71548dfdd5c0cc40a9ea28de076ba14178d74f9e0b7a711b093821&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[学科综述 |
国际政治学学科史（全）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247483961&idx=2&sn=5e1bb06e2f8d246383f9e8174ea0076c&chksm=eb3f9c7fdc481569bcaa1581a4ece88cbe824d51e4d781d7869f341462adc7ba51e294353da7&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

  

![](/images/4178/5.png)

