---
title: 【书评编译】《一带一路，同一个故事？中欧战略叙事研究》
date: 2022-04-02 20:44:39
author: 
tags: ['书评编译']
---


收录于合集 #书评编译 6个

![](/images/135/2.gif)

  

**新书简介**

  

<img src='/images/135/3.png' width='100%' />

  

 _ **One Belt, One Road, One Story?: Towards an EU-China Strategic
Narrative**_

 **《一带一路，同一个故事？中欧战略叙事研究》**

  

编者：Alister Miskimmon, Ben O'Loughlin and Jinghan Zeng

出版社：施普林格-自然集团帕尔格雷夫·麦克米伦出版社

出版时间：2020年

ISBN：978-3-030-53152-2

  

 **作者简介** ****

 **作者：** Alister Miskimmon，贝尔法斯特女王大学历史、人类学、哲学和政治系教授；Ben
O’Loughlin，伦敦大学皇家霍洛威学院国际关系教授；Jinghan Zeng, 英国兰卡斯特大学政治、哲学和宗教系教授。  

 **评论者：** Steven Langendonk，比利时荷语区天主教鲁汶大学（KU Leuven）国际事务和欧洲研究专业博士研究生。

 **编译：** 陈勇（国政学人编译员，北京大学）

 **来源：** Miskimmon, Alister, Ben O'Loughlin, and Jinghan Zeng, eds. One Belt,
One Road, One Story? Towards an EU-China Strategic Narrative. _Springer
Nature_ , 2020.

  

 **摘要**

  

本书探讨主题是新兴的中欧关系，重点是“一带一路”倡议对它的影响。本书采用叙事的路径来理解中欧关系，以突出欧盟和中国学者如何解读中欧双边关系的叙事，以及这种双边关系是如何通过与第三方的关系折射出来的。本书汇集了来自中国外交政策、欧盟研究以及战略沟通领域的中欧学者。实证研究的关注点跨越政策、公众和媒体，涵盖历史、政治经济和外交多方面。“一带一路”倡议和本书讨论的其他政策领域为欧洲和中国民众以新的方式相互了解，以及欧盟及其成员国和中国政府建立新的伙伴关系提供了途径。

  

This book explores the emerging EU-China relationship with a focus on the
impact of the Belt and Road Initiative. It takes a narrative approach to
understanding the EU-China relationship as a means to highlight how scholars
in the EU and China interpret the narrativization of EU-China bilateral
relations and to how this bilateral relationship is refracted through
relations with third parties. The volume brings together scholars from China
and Europe in the fields of Chinese foreign policy, EU studies, and strategic
communication. The empirical focus cuts across policy, publics and media, and
across history, political economy and diplomacy. The Belt and Road Initiative,
alongside the other policy areas addressed in the chapters, offers ways for
people in Europe and China to get to know one another in new ways, and for the
EU and its member states and the Chinese state to forge new partnerships.

  

  

 **目录**

  

第一章 介绍

Introduction

  

 **第一部分：塑造叙事：文本的一致性**

 **Shaping Narratives: Contexts for Alignment**

  

第二章 欧盟塑造对华战略叙事的努力

The EU’s Struggle for a Strategic Narrative

on China （Alister Miskimmon and Ben O’Loughlin）

  

第三章 构建中欧次区域合作

Framing China–EU Sub-regional Cooperation: The Elusive Pursuit of Normative
Resonance? （Chunrong Liu）

  

第四章 重构“一带一路”倡议中的地理、权力和政治

Reconstructing Geography, Power and Politics in the Belt and Road
Initiative（Zhiqin Shi and Vasilis Trigkas）

  

 **第二部分：评估叙事：分析工具**

 **Evaluating Narratives: Analytical Tools**

  

第五章 “一带一路”倡议叙事中叙述者和观众的悖论

The Paradoxes Between Narrator and Audience in the China’s Narrative of Belt
and Road Initiative（Junchi Ma）

  

第六章 欧洲媒体如何看一带一路：一种混合叙事？

China’s Belt and Road Initiative in the European Media: A Mixed Narrative? （Li
Zhang）

  

第七章 欧债危机以来中国对欧战略叙事

Chinese Strategic Narratives of Europe Since the European Debt
Crisis（Zhongping Feng and Jing Huang）

  

第八章 两难之选：南非大学生对中欧发展叙事的接受情况

Choosing the Better Devil: Reception of EU and Chinese Narratives on
Development by South African University Students（Floor Keuleers）

  

第九章 “一带一路”倡议的视觉分析：中国如何稳固有关区域地缘政治秩序、国家认同和基础设施发展的叙事

Visual Analysis of the Belt and Road Initiative: The Securing of a Regional
Geopolitical Order, China’s Identity, and Infrastructure Development
Narratives（Carolijn van Noort）

  

第十章 结论

Conclusion

  

 **书评编译**

  

本书基于战略叙事理论（SNT）的视角审视了当代中欧关系。在新冠肺炎疫情和大国竞争引发欧盟在全球事务中地位的激烈辩论之际，本书的编辑（其中两人共同提出了战略叙事理论）令人信服地提供了一部关于权力和沟通如何在中欧关系中运作的杰作，可能会为那些寻求用新方式讲述欧盟与中国关系的人提供答案。然而，本书留下了一个问题，即SNT如何用于生成政策建议。

  

This edited volume, which examines contemporary EU-China relations from the
perspective of strategic narrative theory (SNT), appears at a time when the
COVID19 pandemic and great power competition are stimulating a lively debate
on the EU’s position in global affairs. The editors –two of whom are co-
responsible for formulating SNT– convincingly argue that a tour de force of
how power and communication operate in this relationship may provide answers
to those looking for new ways to narrate the EU’s relations with China.
However, its execution raises questions about how SNT can (and should) be
employed to generate policy advice.

  

该书主体内容分为两部分，共有八章，由欧盟和中国的资深学者和青年学者们撰写。尽管符合编者设定的规范性和分析性目标，但由于是一部编著，不同章节与SNT的关联性有很大的差异。

  

The book’s eight chapters, written by junior and established scholars based in
the EU and China, are clustered in two sections which correspond with the
prescriptive and analytical aims set out by the editors. Perhaps inevitably
given the the nature of edited volumes, engagement with SNT varies
considerably between chapters.

  

在第一部分中，Miskimmon、O’loughlin、Liu、Shi和Trigkas所写的章节倾向于描述官方声明、精英言论以及中国“一带一路”倡议在欧洲的发展。因为关于中欧关系或“一带一路”倡议的文献中不乏此类描述，所以它们的附加价值仅限于提供政策处方。Miskimmon和O’loughlin正确地指出了欧盟从“价值普世主义（value
universalism）”向更务实的叙事的演变，并建议欧盟应继续采用“堆积木叙事（building block
narrative）”，以克服其固有缺陷，并通过在具体问题上的合作与中国建立信任。Shi and
Trigkas的文章试图“重建观念”，以‘助推’中欧战略共同体向正和的“一带一路”叙事转变。但文章的说服力较弱，仅仅是用泛泛的散文式描述，未能有效区分理论解释和政策处方。

  

The chapters by Miskimmon and O’Loughlin, Liu and Shi and Trigkas in the
former section tend towards descriptive accounts with a focus on official
statements, elite rhetoric and the development of China’s Belt and Road
Initiative (BRI) in Europe. As there is no dearth of such accounts in the
literature on the EU-China relationship or on the BRI [1, 2], their added
value is confined to providing policy prescriptions. Miskimmon and O’Loughlin
correctly identify the EU’s evolution from “value universalism” towards a more
pragmatic narrative, and suggest it should proceed with a “building block
narrative” in order to overcome its inherent weaknesses and build trust with
China via issue-specific cooperation (p. 37). Shi and Trigkas are less
convincing in their attempt to “reconstruct perceptions […] to ‘nudge’ the EU-
China strategic community towards a positive-sum BRI narrative” (p. 70–71),
painting in broad essayistic strokes which often fail to discriminate between
explanation and prescription.

  

在本书的分析部分，各章节虽然大体上都遵循了本书的研究计划，但在实证研究和方法论层面，使得本书主要论点的表达变得复杂。Ma, Li, and Feng and
Huang的研究都各显示出了不同方面的“认知鸿沟”（cognitive chasm），表明欧洲和中国（精英阶层）对双边关系和“一带一路”有不同解读。Feng
and
Huang的研究描述了自金融危机以来中国精英对欧盟的理解是如何演变的。通过展示欧盟如何忽视“将欧洲从金融灾难中拯救出来”的说法和“一带一路”倡议，文章指出了一种结构性的错误认知——这在作者自己的田野调查中也很突出。类似地，Ma假设中欧关系受阻是因为双方无法脱离“自己的制度和历史经验”来认识对方。最后，Li对德国、英国和法国媒体的分析表明，欧盟始终存在根深蒂固的忧虑，担忧中国在欧洲事务中的作用日益增长。两个部分在实证层面的摩擦引出了SNT应用于在国家或政策修辞时可能存在的问题，
**并回避了相对混乱，但同样相关的叙事场所的问题** 。鉴于本书的规范性目标，人们或许会怀疑SNT在产生切实可行和合乎道德的政策建议方面的效用。

  

While generally sympathetic to book’s project, the chapters of the analytical
section complicate the delivery of its main argument at an empirical and
methodological level. The contributions by Ma, Li, and Feng and Huang each
evince a different dimension of a cognitive chasm which separates (elite)
interpretation of the relationship and the BRI in Europe and China. Feng and
Huang, both affiliated with CICIR, provide a rare account of how Chinese
elites’ understanding of the EU has evolved since the financial crisis. By
showing how the narratives of ‘saving Europe from financial disaster’ and the
BRI were largely ignored in the EU, it points to a dynamic of structurally
informed misrecognition which also features prominently in my own fieldwork.
Ma likewise posits that the relationship is hindered by the inability of the
respective sides to cognitively remove themselves from their “own institution
and historical experiences” (p. 111). Finally, Li’s analysis of German,
British and French media points to deep-seated and stable anxieties about
China’s growing role in European affairs (see also [3]). The friction between
the two sections at the empirical level draws out the problematic tendency to
apply SNT at the level of state or policy rhetoric, **and avoid comparatively
messy but equally relevant sites of narrative reception** [5]. Given the
prescriptive aim of the book, doubt is cast on SNT’s utility for generating
practicable and ethically sound policy advice.

  

尽管在本书的主要论点中没有突出，但Keuleers和Van Noort的文章表明SNT这一概念应用于基于不同方法论的研究的潜力。Van
Noort运用SNT与斯蒂尔对本体安全（ontological
security）的解读进行对话，并对“一带一路”交流中的视觉元素展开分析，这一点值得称赞。Keuleers运用Q方法（Q
methodology）辅助分析南非学生如何解读中国和欧盟的叙事。文章将数据分解成不同的成分，将其编织组合成差异化的综合表述，提高了叙事研究的门槛。编辑们承认，使用SNT来“阐明欧盟—中国关系的实质”在理论和方法上仍存在障碍，审慎的做法是由其激发的创新成果来考察其
**规范性的潜力** 。这本书可能会引起学者们对SNT方法的兴趣，并因此可能会激发更广泛的讨论，探讨它如何阐明全球政治中的重要关系。

  

Despite not featuring prominently in the book’s main argument, the remaining
contributions by Keuleers and Van Noort illustrate the continued promise of
SNT as a conceptual site for inter-methodological dialogue [4]. Van Noort
should be commended for bringing SNT into dialogue with Steele’s reading of
ontological security, and the development of a visual analysis of BRI
communication. Keuleers’ Q methodology-assisted analysis of how South African
students interpret Chinese and EU narratives and weave constitutive components
into individually differentiated bricolages raises the bar for studies on
narrative reception. Considering the editors’ own admission that theoretical
and methodological obstacles remain for using SNT to “illuminate the substance
of EU-China relations” (p. 9), it may be prudent to ground its **prescriptive
potentiality** in the creativity it elicits. The volume is likely to be of
interest to scholars exploring approaches to SNT and may thus stimulate a
broader discussion on how it may illuminate, from above as well as below, key
relationships in global politics.

  

 **参考来源**

Steven Langendonk, "Alister Miskimmon, Ben O’Loughlin and Jinghan Zeng, eds.,
One Belt, One Road, One Story? Towards an EU-China Strategic Narrative."
_Journal of Chinese Political Science_ , Vol. 26, 2021, pp. 609-611.

  

**词汇整理**

 **价值普世主义** **value universalism**

 **Q方法** **Q methodology**

 **本体安全** **ontological security**

  

审校 | 谢菁

排版 | 王慧瑜

文章观点不代表本平台观点，本平台评译分享的文章均出于专业学习之用, 不以任何盈利为目的，内容主要呈现对原文的介绍，原文内容请通过各高校购买的数据库自行下载。

![](/images/135/4.gif)

