---
title: 【会议预告】“新冠肺炎疫情下的卫生治理和人工智能相关技术创新”研讨会
date: 2020-06-05 20:00:00
author: 
tags: 
---


收录于合集

![](/images/2028/2.jpeg)  

![](/images/2028/3.png)  

  

2020年上半年，新冠肺炎席卷全球，世界大多数国家都被拖进了这场灾难之中。这次大流行对全世界造成了如此严重的破坏，它一定会被写进人类的历史。与1918年的流感大流行相比，人类唯一能感到庆幸的是，人类在了解病毒、控制病毒传播速度和遏制病毒方面的技术能力取得了巨大飞跃。特别是在这次疫情期间，使用大量与人工智能有关的技术控制疫情的效果令人印象深刻。
**这些技术在疫情中的应用具有不同的积极和消极影响，在政治学、社会学、法学等各个领域的争议非常值得讨论和总结。**

In the first half year of 2020, COVID-19 swept the whole world, and most
countries in the world have been dragged into this catastrophe. This pandemic
has caused so severe damages to the whole world, that it will definitely be
written into the history of human beings. Compared with the influenza pandemic
of 1918, the only thing human beings can feel fortunate is that human beings
have achieved a huge leap in their technological abilities to understand
viruses, to control the spread speed of the virus and to contain the virus.
Especially during this epidemic, the use of a large number of AI-related
technologies in controlling the epidemic was impressive. The use of these
technologies in the epidemic has different positive and negative effects, and
the controversy in various fields such as political science, sociology, and
law is very worthy of being discussed and summed up.

  

  
  
  

 **议程**

  
  

 **Program**

  

 **新冠肺炎疫情下的卫生治理和**

 **人工智能相关技术创新**

 **Innovation in Health Governance and AI-related Technologies during the
COVID-19 Pandemic**

  

❂ **分论坛1 (** **Session I)**

  

 **比较视角下的新冠疫情期间人工智能相关技术应用**

 **A Comparative Perspective on the use of AI-related technologies during the
COVID-19 Pandemic**

代码、数字通行证、人工智能和大数据在新型冠状病毒监测系统中发挥的作用。

What are the major differences, political debates, and societal
controversies/visions about the use of AI/apps/big data/Sensory tech/modeling
etc. during Covid-19  

  

❂ **分论坛2 (** **Session II)**

  

 **流行病检测系统**

 **Pandemic Monitoring Systems**

人工智能、应用程序、大数据、传感技术、建模等之间的区别及其引起的政治性辩论和社会争议

What are the roles of codes, digital passes, AI and big data for covid-19
monitoring systems (testing, contact tracing, isolation)? What innovations as
well as technical and legal problems arise for public and private monitoring
systems?

  

❂ **分论坛3** **(Session III)**

  

 **数字化和经济重启**

 **Digitalization and Reopening the Economy**

如何使用电子护照、健康应用程序和数字应用程序等来实现国内和国与国之间的流动性？目前正在发展什么技术和法律框架？  

How are electronic passports, health apps, and digital applications etc. used
to allow mobility both domestically but also between countries? What technical
and legal frameworks are currently developing?

  

  

  
  
  

 **平台**

  
  

 **Platform**

  

Zoom在线会议平台

Zoom Webinar

  

  
  
  

 **语言**

  
  

 **Language**

  

英语

English

  

  
  
  

 **时间**

  
  

 **Time**

 **分论坛1** ：6月22日，周一，

19:00-21:00（北京时间）

 **Session 1** : 19:00-21:00,

June 22nd (Beijing Time)

  

 **分论坛2** ：6月29日，周一，

19:00-21:00（北京时间）

 **Session 2** : 19:00-21:00,

June 29th (Beijing Time)

  

 **分论坛3** ：7月6日，周一，

19:00-21:00（北京时间）

 **Session 3** : 19:00-21:00,

July 6th (Beijing Time)

  

  
  
  

 **主办方**

  
  

 **Host**

  

阿登纳基金会（德国）上海代表处；

海国图智研究院

Konrad Adenauer Stiftung Shanghai Representative Office；

Intellisia Institute

  

  

![](/images/2028/4.gif)

本次研讨会对外开放300个旁听席位，报名请 **扫描下方二维码或点击阅读原文** 填写信息。  
The seminar open to the public for 300 seats. Please scan the QR-Code or click
"read more" to register.

<img src='/images/2028/5.png' width='109' height='109' />

![](/images/2028/6.gif)

  

<img src='/images/2028/7.jpeg' width='263' height='115' />  

海国图智研究院是新型社会独立智库，位列2018中国社会智库排行榜第五，由芝加哥大学政治学博士、暨南大学陈定定教授于2015年在深圳发起创立，总部位于广州 。

“海国图智”名称源于清代启蒙思想家、中国近代“睁眼看世界”第一人魏源所撰《海国图志》。研究院聘请海内外知名学者及专家组成学术委员会及理事会，由院长负责统筹协调国内外优秀青年学者及专家资源，致力于通过高质高效的研究团队、独立客观的研究视角及强大的资源整合能力，对中国和世界当前面临的问题和挑战从创新思维角度提出具有实际意义的解决方案。

旨在为中国公众及政策制定者提供科学、公正及客观的政策分析、研究报告及学术向导，在国际政治经济、国际安全、国家战略及国民认知等方面推动学术研究及政策观察，为政府、企业以及个人客户提供一流智力支持和决策咨询服务。

Intellisia Institute is one of the leading non-profit independent social think
tanks in China. With our high-qualified and efficient research team and our
strong resource-integration ability, we are dedicated to provide knowledge
resources for the government, enterprises, media, academia and the public from
an independent and objective research perspectives, so as to help them better
"see the world with open eyes", understand the relationship between China and
the world, and to provide strategic insights and policy solutions for foreign
affairs, as well as promote the growth and development of China's social think
tanks in its cross border communication.In 2019, Intellisia institute was
listed as one of the first think tank of China Think Tank Index (CTTI), and
was ranked 5th among China's social think tank.

  

<img src='/images/2028/8.jpeg' width='223' height='87' />

阿登纳基金会（KAS）成立于1962年，是一个非政府组织，以德意志联邦共和国第一任总理康拉德·
阿登纳的名字命名，致力于推进地区和全球化发展，并推动创建良性的国际秩序。基金会在中国北京和上海分别设立办公室，在增进中德伙伴之间的理解、推动中欧双边关系对话、促进中德两国之间在多个领域的交流做出了极大的贡献。

The Konrad-Adenauer-Stiftung (KAS) is a political foundation. In Germany, KAS
offers a wide variety of civic education conferences and events. KAS offices
abroad are in charge of over 200 projects in more than 120 countries. KAS is
proud to bear the name of Konrad Adenauer. The first chancellor of the Federal
Republic of Germany’s name and principles are our guidelines, duty, and
obligation. KAS conferences and events attract people who 'have something to
say'. In Germany, KAS offers more than 2,500 events per year which attract
145,000 participants. KAS provides moral and material support to
intellectually gifted young people, not only from Germany, but also from
Central and Eastern Europe and developing countries. KAS stays in close
contact with our more than 10.000 alumni. The KAS offices in China aim to
promote undernderstandings between Chinese and German partners, promote
dialogues between China and Europe, and promote exchanges between China and
Germany in academic, economic, technological, and social fields.

  

<img src='/images/2028/9.jpeg' width='174' height='123' />

亚欧人工智能研究联盟是由阿登纳基金会（德国）上海办事处、海国图智研究院、大湾区人工智能与社会研究院的林芬教授、宁波诺丁汉大学的梅飞虎博士联合发起的平台。该平台旨在为欧亚大陆及更广泛地区的社会科学研究提供一个思考空间，以聚集不断扩大的人工智能领域的研究人员、专家和从业者，定期将他们的分析传递给政策制定者，进一步促进和刺激跨学科合作，以及关于人工智能的潜力和局限的公共对话。

Asia-Europe Consortium for AI Research (AECAIR) is a platform, initiated by
partners in Asia and Europe, including KAS Shanghai Office, Intellisia
Institute in Guangzhou, Prof Jennifer Lin (Greater Bay Area AI and Society
Research Institute in Hong Kong), and Prof Maximilian Mayer (University of
Nottingham Ningbo China). This platform aims to offer a thinking space for
social science research – across the Eurasian continent and beyond – in order
to gather researchers, experts, and practitioners in the expanding field of AI
aiming to channel their analysis regularly to policy makers. It aims at
fostering and stimulating interdisciplinary collaborations as well as public
conversations about the potentials and limits of AI.  
  
![](/images/2028/10.jpeg)  
  
  
  
  
  
  
![](/images/2028/11.jpeg)  
  
  
  
  

 **添加 “国小政”微信，获取最新资讯![](/images/2028/12.png)**  

![](/images/2028/13.gif)![](/images/2028/14.png)

 **好好学习，天天“在看”**<img src='/images/2028/15.gif' width='17' height='17' />

![](/images/2028/16.png)

