---
title: 【会议征稿】第四届欧亚人工智能联盟·全球人工智能治理国际会议
date: 2021-08-25 19:55:00
author: 
tags: 
---


收录于合集

以下文章来源于海国图智研究院 ，作者海国图智001

![](/images/610/2.png) **海国图智研究院** .

海国图智研究院，定位于新型、独立的国际关系社会智库，诚愿以热点资讯、原创评论和深度报告等优质学术产品，服务于全球化背景下“开眼看世界”的中外读者。

**![](/images/610/3.gif)**

**  
**

**![](/images/610/4.png)**

**  
**

自 2016年以来，海国图智研究院和阿登纳基金会（德国）上海办事处一直专注于人工智能及其他新兴技术对人类社会生活影响的研究。

在过去的几年里，我们为中国和世界各地的学者提供了各种机会，包括多次国际会议，展示他们对人工智能主题的见解和研究。

2019年 7
月，阿登纳基金会和海国图智研究院共同发起了亚欧人工智能研究联盟(AECAIR)，这是一个与来自亚洲和德国的合作伙伴建立的网络，旨在创建一个欧亚人工智能对话论坛。

因为这些共同努力，阿登纳基金会和海国图智研究院在宾夕法尼亚大学的“2020年全球智库指数报告”中被列为“最佳人工智能（AI）智库”之一。而且，海国图智研究院是这个名单上唯一的中国智库。

今年，阿登纳基金会（德国）上海办事处和海国图智研究院将在欧亚人工智能研究联盟的框架下举办 **第四届欧亚人工智能联盟** **·**
**全球人工智能治理国际会议，专注于人工智能领域的国际合作议题。**

**什么时候？**

**2021** **年** **12** **月** **17-18** **日**

**在哪里？**

**中国广州（具体地点待定）**

我们欢迎来自国际的投稿，主题包含但不限于：

  * **人工智能国际合作：尤其是欧中合作和其他地区合作；**

  *  **AI** **特定法规、隐私、网络安全；**

  *  **基于人工智能的公共服务解决方案，例如气候变化、流行病控制等；**

  *  **应对人工智能对社会影响的政策，例如，就业结构转型、减少不平等和其他社会发展主题。**

请在2021 年 10 月 15 日（星期五）之前将您的论文提交至：euruswang@intellisia.org

阿登纳基金会（德国）上海办事处和海国图智研究院将为非本地的论文演讲者提供两天住宿。此外，我们还将承担往返广州的经济舱（仅限国内航班）/高铁二等座。今年我们还将邀请资深研究人员作为入选论文的评论者。由于当前的国际旅行限制，我们想请国际投稿者在线参与论坛。

所有投稿的论文将由评审委员会选出一部分，录取于会议上的论文展示。评审委员会还推荐将论文纳入国际期刊特刊中。

我们鼓励作者用英文写作他们的论文，并围绕明确的议题展开研究，提交的论文全文最多约5500
字，包括参考文献、注释和标题，请参考美国政治学会（APSA）有关论文写作的规定格式，并附上摘要。我们也接受中文稿件，鼓励英语演讲能力有限的中国学者展示自己的见解，会议期间将提供中英文翻译。

作者需确认该作品是原创的，过去没有以任何形式出现在出版作品中。所有收录的论文都将出现在会议论文集中。但版权属于作者，作者可以在以后的出版物中使用他们的作品。

**重要日期**

全文提交截止日期：

2021年10月15日

接受/拒绝通知：

2021年11月15日

会议日：

2021年12月17日

我们非常期待您的投稿！

阿登纳基金会（德国）上海代表处

海国图智研究院

亚欧人工智能研究联盟

**Call for Papers**

Fourth AECAIR International Conference

on Global Governance of ArtificialIntelligence

**International Cooperation**

 **on Artificial Intelligence**

 **With a Focus on Europe and China**

  

Since2016, Intellisia Institute and Konrad Adenauer Foundation’s Shanghai
officehave been focusing on artificial intelligence and its impacts on human
societyas well as the existing and emerging international structures in this
field. Inthe past years, we have provided various opportunities including
severalinternational conferences for scholars in China and the world to
present theirown insights and research on AI topics. In July 2019, Konrad
AdenauerFoundation and Intellisia Institute co-launched the Asia-European
Consortium onAI Research (AECAIR), a network with partners from Asia and
Germany that aimsto create a European-Asian forum for dialog on Artificial
Intelligence (AI).Due to these joint efforts, Konrad Adenauer Foundation and
the IntellisiaInstitute were listed as one of the “Best Artificial
Intelligence (AI) ThinkTanks” in the University of Pennsylvania’s “2020 Global
Go To Think Tank IndexReport”. Moreover, Intellisia Institute is the only
Chinese think tank on thislist.

Thisyear, Konrad Adenauer Foundation’s Shanghai office and Intellisia
Institutewill host the **Fourth AECAIR International Conference on
GlobalGovernance of Artificial Intelligence** , in the context of our
AECAIRactivities, **focusing on the international cooperation on
ArtificialIntelligence.**

 **  
**

 **When?**

 **December 17-18, 2021**

 **  
**

 **Where?**

 **Guangzhou, P.R. China** (exact venue TBD)

  

Wewelcome international contributions to our conference related, but not
limitedto the following key topics:

  

  *  **International cooperation on AI: especially Europe China cooperation and other regions cooperation**

  *  **AI specific regulation, privacy, cybersecurity**

  *  **Pilot AI-based solutions in Public Service such as climate change, pandemic control, etc.**

  *  **Policies to cope with the impact of AI on society, e. g., transformation of employment structure, reduction of inequities, and other social development topics**

  

Pleasesubmit your papers to: euruswang@intellisia.orgbeforeOctober 15
(Friday), 2021 for full considerations.

KonradAdenauer Foundation’s Shanghai office and Intellisia Institute will
provide twodays accommodation to non-local paper presenters. Also, we will
cover theround-trip economy flights (Domestic flights only) / second-class of
high-speedrail to Guangzhou. This year we will also invite senior researchers
asdiscussants for selected papers. Due to the current international
travelrestrictions, we would like to ask international contributors to
participateonline.

Allsubmissions will be selected by a review committee for paper presentation
onthe conference. The review committee also recommends papers for inclusion in
aspecial issue of an international journal.

Weencourage authors to submit their manuscripts in English, research
articleswith clear research questions, up to ~5500 words, including
references, notesand captions, corresponding with ~6 printed pages in the
journal, APSA CitationStyle. However, we also accept Chinese manuscripts in
order to encourage Chinesescholars with limited English abilities to show
their insights, which shouldalso not exceed 6 pages, and please attach 1 more
page of the research summaryin English. Chinese and English translation will
be offered during theconference.

Authorsneed to confirm that the work is original and has not appeared in
literature inany form in the past. All accepted papers will appear in the
conferenceproceedings. Copyright belongs to the authors, who are permitted to
use theirworks in future publications.

  

 **ImportantDates**

FullPaper Submission Deadline:

October15, 2021

Acceptance/RejectionNotification:

November15, 2021

ConferenceDay:

December17, 2021

Weare very much looking forward to your contributions!

  

排版 | 韩珂

文章观点不代表本平台观点，本平台评译分享的文章均出于专业学习之用, 不以任何盈利为目的，内容主要呈现对原文的介绍，原文内容请通过各高校购买的数据库自行下载。

 **好好学习，天天“在看”**<img src='/images/610/5.gif' width='17' height='17' />

![](/images/610/6.png)

