---
title: 【学者观点】庞中英：China–Globalgovernancewithouthegemony
date: 2018-05-11 18:02:55
author: 
tags: 
---


收录于合集

<img src='/images/3742/2.gif' width='auto' />

简  

庞中英  

IFF学术委员会委员，现为中国海洋大学海洋发展研究院院长，教授

庞中英教授授权首发  

 **  
**

 **As US power fades, says Pang Zhongying, IFF Academic Committee member, and
dean of the Advanced Institute of Marine Development Studies, Ocean University
of China, China can create a new non‑hegemonic model of global economic
governance based on dialogue by ‘binding its hands and feet’ to allow others
to trust its good intentions.**

![](/images/3742/3.jpeg)

Where is global economic governance heading? What will the future of global
economic governance hold? These questions are on everyone’s lips.

In the report of the 19th National Congress of the Communist Party of China,
President Xi Jinping reaffirmed China’s foreign policy principle of ‘never
seeking hegemony’, but this does not mean that China should disavow the role
of international leadership. Indeed, it is now engaged in what might be called
a non-hegemonic leadership, which is sure to be hugely significant in the
future of global economic governance.

![](/images/3742/4.jpeg)

  

**China and the established international economic system**

China formulated the ‘1+6’ framework, a dialogue between the Chinese Premier
and six international economic organisations – including the International
Monetary Fund, the Organisation for Economic Co‑operation and Development, and
the World Trade Organization – through which roundtables took place in 2016
and 2017.

  

This dialogue mechanism is crucial for the future of global economic
governance. First, China is a key supporter of the international economic
order during its current crisis. Currently, the challenge to the existing
international economic order comes not from China but from Western countries,
and the internal political developments that have seen President Donald Trump
elected and the UK decide to leave the European Union. China’s actions do not
pose a challenge to the world’s existing liberal order, but are helping to
maintain and strengthen it. China’s current major thrust in foreign policy is
precisely in support of free trade and globalisation.

Second, China remains willing to accept the important role of the major
international economic organisations and their impacts on China. In the period
of China’s reform and ‘opening‑up’ that began in 1978, these institutions
played an important role in China’s transformation. From China’s perspective,
the 1+6 framework indicates that its domestic reform still requires these
organisations to continue to introduce existing international rules and norms
and assimilate into China’s domestic governance.

  

**China and the newly founded international financial institutions**

China is an international leader; but, in China’s case, leadership does not
entail hegemony. China leads the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB),
but does not take hegemony over other countries inside the bank’s framework.

‘No hegemony in the AIIB’ means two things: first, the world’s leading
hegemonic power, the US, has not joined the AIIB; second, China does not seek
hegemonic status – such as the US enjoys in the World Bank – even though China
is the largest AIIB stakeholder.

China continues to welcome US participation in the AIIB, but few expect that a
Trump-led US would have any intention of joining the AIIB, particularly in
light of its recent withdrawals from other multilateral institutions. It can
be assumed that the US will eventually participate in the AIIB but – unless
the AIIBagreement is amended – without the same veto power it enjoys in the
World Bank and without surpassing China’s voting power.

Many international co-operation initiatives come to fruition without US
involvement. Neither the EU, east Asian monetary and macroeconomic policy co-
operation bodies – such as the Chiang Mai Initiative and the Association of
Southeast Asian Nations +3 Macroeconomic Research Office – nor the Shanghai
Co‑operation Organisation (SCO) include the US.

In the absence of international co-operation from the US, who will take up
leadership? As shown by its dealings with the AIIB, China not only functions
as a leader in a structure without hegemony, but also – through self-
restriction and institutional arrangement – does not employ US-style hegemony
that permits it a right to veto significant policymaking.

To avoid further fragmentation of global economic governance, these newly
established institutions pay special attention to co-ordination with existing
organisations to avoid conflicts. The presence of the AIIB is a challenge to
existing institutions, although it has achieved very positive co‑ordination
and co-operation with the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank.

It is necessary to mention the New Development Bank (NDB) of the Brics nations
– Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa. The most important difference
between the NDB and the AIIB is that the AIIB has no hegemony but leadership,
while the NDB has neither hegemony nor a leader. Thus, the AIIB’s impact is
far greater than that of the NDB.

  

 ****

 **Is future global economic governance without hegemony?**

The mission and initial practice of the AIIB answers the predominant question
that worries the West: what does ‘new global governance’ or ‘alternative
global governance institutions’ mean? The AIIB is an international
organisation without hegemony and, to some extent, it represents the concept
of global governance without hegemony that China pursues.

China’s leading role in the AIIB is no secret – through the bank, China
attempts a role in global economic governance, but not by ignoring the
governance constraints imposed on it by the AIIB. In fact, the AIIB is where
China volunteers to ‘bind its own hands and feet’ to gain others’ trust, and
allows others the opportunity to deal with the ‘China challenge’ that they
face.

Some assume that the establishment of the AIIB means placing China’s funds
under the dominion of multilateral governance – that is, other member
governments preventing China from making financing decisions – instead of
allowing Beijing to invest freely worldwide. This is the main reason many
European countries chose to participate. Compared with the very different
attitudes of Japan and the US, European countries that pursue multilateralism
are most aware of the value of multilateral institutions. The AIIB must comply
with its own standards in environmental protection, human rights protection
and transparency to follow its self-declared ‘best practice’ .

What does the China challenge mean to others? In 2010, the global activities
of China’s two largest bilateral development banks, the China Development Bank
(CDB) and the Export-Import Bank of China (EIBC), meant that China’s overseas
development loans surpassed those of the World Bank – by the end of 2014, the
CDB and EIBC had US$684 billion in outstanding loans.

  

From the perspective of other nations, the BRI will be a target for future
global governance, something Chinese policymakers who advocate active
participation in global governance only reluctantly face up to

Compared with the CDB and EIBC, the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) is a more
extensive global action, and epitomises more fully the ‘China challenge. From
the perspective of other nations, the BRI will be a target for future global
governance, something Chinese policymakers who advocate active participation
in global governance only reluctantly face up to.

Inspired by the great success of the start-up phase of the AIIB, in 2015 the
author was among the first to advocate for the Chinese government to actively
apply multilateralism to the BRI. Later, China stressed that the BRI required
‘joint contribution’ to solve the problem of international legitimacy and
other international obstacles that the BRI has encountered.

At present, globalisation is in crisis. And China – the world’s largest
economy in purchasing power parity – is anxious about deglobalisation and has
adopted a policy of supporting globalisation, of which the BRI is the greatest
indicator of the continuance of this support.

The main reason China supports globalisation is clear: China is one of its
biggest beneficiaries. But continuing to support globalisation in the
traditional way will inevitably ignite further conflict with victims of
globalisation. The main reason for the ongoing tension between China and the
US is that China fully supports globalisation, while the US requires China to
surrender huge profits to compensate for the damage globalisation is
inflicting on the US: an almost irreconcilable contradiction.

If the world in the future embraces either further multipolarised or
unpolarised systems, international organisations that conduct leadership
without hegemony, such the AIIB, may play a more influential role in shaping
that world.

To aim at a global leadership that is not a hegemony and, in particular, to
build global governance without hegemony, is of great significance to the
world in the 21st century. The future world needs leadership but, unlike in
the 20th century, to resist hegemony as well.

China is not a global governance hegemony succeeding the fading power of the
US. So what is the precise role of China in global governance? Looking to the
AIIB can supply part of the answer.

 ****

 **Conclusion**

Contrary to the concerns of US President Barack Obama’s administration around
China’s establishment of the AIIB, the bank – born into a crisis of
multilateral systems – played an unexpected role in restraining the crisis of
global economic governance, and has now created a new model of global economic
governance.

A new question has arisen: is the new global economic governance mode, such as
that embodied by theAIIB, sustainable?

The AIIB is still in its infancy, so the answer to that question does not
exist in any paper, but “in the future practice of itself”, to paraphrase Jin
Liqun, the AIIB’s first president.

The progress of the AIIB has proved that the BRI should seek
multilateralisation at multiple levels; this has occurred in such co-operation
mechanisms as the ‘1+16’ dialogue framework between China and 16 countries in
central and eastern Europe. China is willing to ‘co-construct’ the BRI with
the world, and therefore held the first Belt and Road Forum for International
Cooperation in May 2017 in Beijing. The question remains: will the BRI, like
the AIIB, eventually converge with the new global multilateral system?

  

 **This article is part of _The IFF China Report 2018_, which draws mainly on
content provided by China-headquartered think tank, the International Finance
Forum, and is published in association with Central Banking.**  

筛选：晞哲 编辑：小宜  

<img src='/images/3742/5.gif' width='auto' />

  

  

