---
title: 【即将截止】国际会议：中国崛起与亚洲的回应
date: 2021-01-25 19:58:18
author: 
tags: 
---


收录于合集

![](/images/1234/2.jpeg)

  

<img src='/images/1234/3.jpeg' width='25' height='25' />

**15th Bi­en­nial Conference of Nordic As­so­ci­ation for China Stud­ies
(NACS)**

 **NIAS – Nordic In­sti­tute of Asian Stud­ies  
14th Annual Nordic NIAS Coun­cil Conference _(VIR­TUAL CONFERENCE)_**

 **01**

 **Chin­a’s Rise/Asi­a’s Re­sponses**

 **10-11 June 2021**

China’s power in economic, political, military and cultural terms is mounting.
In our contemporary world, this rise in China’s influence has been phenomenal.
However, the extent, of its actual impact on Asian countries and societies
remain subject to scholarly and practitioner debate. To understand the
significance of China’s ascendancy, some would argue, there is a need for
concise and accurate analysis of its political, economic, and military
engagement, as well as its proclaimed intentions. Tools to conduct such
studies on the power and influence of China are, according to some scholars,
still missing, and at best, insufficient.

  

Regardless, what matters is how “actors” (broadly defined to include policy-
makers, business people, elites, intellectuals, general public) in different
Asian countries perceive, interpret and respond to China’s engagement and use
of power. Obviously, some embrace China, while others reject it outright; in
addition, there are significant bystanders neither embracing nor rejecting. In
any case, how do these Asian actors rationalize their positions? How do they
act out their stance towards China? These questions are critical because –
voluntarily or involuntarily – many societal actors assumed to have played a
role in making their communities, societies and/or countries become more
sinicized, de-sinicized or re-sinicized than before. If this assumption holds,
are these actors collaborators or competitors of China? In what ways, and how,
have they enabled or disabled the sinicization, de-sinicization and re-
sinicization?

  

During this two-day interdisciplinary conference, we are welcoming
participants to share their findings on how the rise of China occurs, and how
China’s rise is perceived, and how different states and societal actors have
reacted to it in Asia. Evidence of sinicization, de-sinicization and re-
sinicization will be identified and studied.

  

The **theme** of the conference reflects our objective; however, scholars are
encouraged to think broadly, especially in submissions under the following
indicative individual topics of interest:

  

  * Sociology and Anthropology

  * History

  * Politics and Law

  * Economics

  * Environmental Studies

  * International Relations

  * Translation, Sinology and Linguistics

  * Teaching Chinese as a Foreign Language

  * Cinema, Media and Performing Arts

  * Art and Archaeology

  * Gender Studies

  * Literature

  * Philosophy and Religion

  

 **02**

 **Panel Ap­plic­a­tion**

We strongly encourage self-organized panels. Panels are expected to stimulate
active exchange of ideas. For panel proposals, please include an abstract for
the panel as a whole (max 300 words) in addition to individual abstracts for
papers to be included in the panel. We also welcome proposals for innovative
session formats such as roundtables, debates etc.

  

 **03**

 **Conference or­gan­isa­tion and format**

The conference runs from 10 to 11 June and will consist of keynotes, panels,
and roundtables, while also reserving time for informal discussions and
networking. We invite proposals for panels, roundtables, and individual papers
on the topics above as well as any related topics. We also welcome suggestions
for other formats. The conference offers good opportunities to meet people in
the field, network, and informally exchange views and ideas.

  

Prior to the conference is a two day PhD course (8-9 June, see separate
announcement below). Participants in the PhD course are expected to also take
part in the conference (with or without a paper presentation).

  

 **04**

 **Key­note Speak­ers**

The following speakers will inspire our proceedings:

  

  * William A. Callahan, London School of Economics

  * Camilla T. N. Sørensen, Royal Danish Defence College

  * Mette Halskov Hansen, University of Oslo

  

 **05**

 **Par­ti­cip­a­tion**

Conference participation is open to scholars and doctoral candidates in the
social sciences and humanities. We encourage contributions with an emphasis on
interdisciplinary perspectives.

  

 **06**

 **Prac­tical Infor­mation**

Due to Covid-19, the conference and PhD workshop will be conducted remotely.

  

**07**

 **Dead­lines and Sub­mis­sion Guidelines**

 **25 January 2021** : Individual paper abstracts (Max. 250 words)  
 **25 January 2021** : Panel abstracts (Max. 300 words), in addition to 250
word abstracts for contributing papers

  

Please submit your abstract/panel proposal by sending an email to

nacsnnc@helsinki.fi by 2pm, January 25, 2021.

  

Please include the following information in your submitted abstract/panel
proposal:  
name, title/position, email address and institutional affiliation.

  

If you plan to submit to PhD workshop, the requirements are here (different
from conference submission).

  

**来源**

https://www.helsinki.fi/en/beta/chinas-riseasias-responses/about  

  

![](/images/1234/4.gif)

