---
title: 【新刊速递】第19期|ReviewofInternationalStudies,No.1,2020
date: 2020-02-09 20:00:00
author: 国政学人
tags: ['新刊速递']
---


收录于合集 #新刊速递 123个

_![](/images/2854/2.jpeg)<img src='/images/2854/3.png' width='100%' /><img
src='/images/2854/4.png' width='100%' /><img src='/images/2854/5.png'
width='100%' /><img src='/images/2854/6.png' width='100%' />

  

 **期刊简介**

![](/images/2854/7.jpeg)

Review of International Studies
（《国际研究评论》）是由剑桥大学出版社代表英国国际研究协会出版且同行评审的国际关系学术期刊，其前身为British Journal of
International Studies (1975 - 1980)
。该期刊致力于反映全球政治的性质变化和新兴的政治挑战，旨在为国际社会搭建一个可供辩论的平台用以讨论当下紧迫的全球议题。2018年该期刊的影响因子为1.791。

_

  

 **本期编委**

 **【编译】** 晋玉 朱文菡 李雯珲 缪高意 赵柳希 阮含含 杨帆

 **【审校】** 丁伟航 胡贺 虞敷扬 晋玉 叶扶疏

 **【排版】** 贺奕

  

<img src='/images/2854/8.jpeg' width='100%' />

  

 **本期目录**

 **1.** **图像、情感和国际政治：艾伦·库尔迪之死**

Images, emotions, and international politics: The death of Alan Kurdi

 **2\. 国际主义者、主权主义者和本土主义者：泛非主义中关于世界秩序的不同解读**

Internationalists, sovereigntists, nativists: Contending visions of world
order in Pan-Africanism

 **3\. “实践时间！”英国脱欧后安全与国防外交的信念未来**

‘Practice time!’ Doxic futures in security and defence diplomacy after Brexit

 **4\. 利益、观念和新古典现实主义对国家行为的研究**

Interests, ideas, and the study of state behaviour in neoclassical realism

 **5\. 战争的成本：慰问金和杀害平民的政治**

The costs of war: Condolence payments and the politics of killing civilians

 **6\. “难民也能成为创业者”：人道主义、种族和叙利亚难民的营销**

‘#Refugees can be entrepreneurs too!’ Humanitarianism, race, and the marketing
of Syrian refugees

 **7\. 超越软实力/硬实力二元对立：以中日领土争端为例**

Traversing the soft/hard power binary: The case of the Sino-Japanese
territorial dispute

  

 **1.**

图像、情感和国际政治：艾伦·库尔迪之死

 **【题目】** Images, emotions, and international politics: The death of Alan
Kurdi

 **【作者】** Rebecca Adler-Nissen（哥本哈根大学）；Katrine Emilie Andersen（哥本哈根大学）；Lene
Hansen（哥本哈根大学）

  

 **【摘要】**
图像、情感和国际政治是如何联系在一起的？这篇文章构建了一种有助于国际关系中视觉性（visuality）和情感研究的理论框架。本文纠正了图像会引起特定情感反应的看法，而认为人们基于图像产生了充沛的情感，这种反应应当视为外交政策话语的表现。我们的理论将图像作为解释和争论的对象，将情感限定为社会整体构成的情感，而非个人内心状态。情感交集（emotional
bundling）——不同的情感在话语中的结合/交融——有助于构成政治化和非政治化的政治主观活动。多种情感交错在一起（emotional
bundling），使领导人传达出他们与所有人相通的情感体验，同时使领导人常以“父亲”等带有权威性和性别倾向的立场来传达他们与所有人相通的情感体验。文章通过分析三岁叙利亚库尔德男孩艾伦·库尔迪(Alan
Kurdi)在2015年9月溺亡的的照片来证明该研究框架的价值。Kurdi迅速成为叙利亚难民危机的全球性标志，各国领导也迅速表达了个人对此的悲痛、表现出为此采取行动的决心。然后才不到一年的时间针对Kurdi惨死一事的政策从“为难民敞开大门”到试图阻止难民入境。此外，论述-
操演(discursive-performative)方法为研究“视觉性（visuality）、情感和国际政治”提供了一个新思路。

How are images, emotions, and international politics connected? This article
develops a theoretical framework contributing to visuality and emotions
research in International Relations. Correcting the understanding that images
cause particular emotional responses, this article claims that emotionally
laden responses to images should be seen as performed in foreign policy
discourses. We theorise images as objects of interpretation and contestation,
and emotions as socially constituted rather than as individual ‘inner states’.
Emotional bundling – the coupling of different emotions in discourse – helps
constitute political subjectivities that both politicise and depoliticise.
Through emotional bundling political leaders express their experiences of
feelings shared by all humans, and simultaneously articulate themselves in
authoritative and gendered subject positions such as ‘the father’. We
illustrate the value of our framework by analysing the photographs of Alan
Kurdi, a three-year-old Syrian-Kurdish boy who drowned in September 2015.
‘Kurdi’ became an instant global icon of the Syrian refugee crisis. World
leaders expressed their personal grief and determination to act, but within a
year, policies adopted with direct reference to Kurdi’s tragic death changed
from an open-door approach to attempts to stop refugees from arriving. A
discursive-performative approach opens up new avenues for research on
visuality, emotionality, and world politics.

  

 **【编译】晋玉**

 **【校对】丁伟航**

  

 **2.**

国际主义者、主权主义者和本土主义者：泛非主义中关于世界秩序的不同解读

 **【题目】** Internationalists, sovereigntists, nativists: Contending visions of
world order in Pan-Africanism

 **【作者】** Rita Abrahamsen（渥太华大学公共与国际事务研究院）

  

 **【摘要】**
不同于通常将自由世界秩序视为“西方产物”的观点，本文认为它是泛非主义意识形态和主体间的互动中产生的。通过形态分析法，本文区分了三种泛非主义中关于世界秩序的不同解读：一种是强调大陆统一和跨国协作的国际主义世界观；一种是强调国家主权的主权主义世界观；一种是按种族划界的本土主义世界观。本文结论是泛非主义包含了对于一个更加公正平等、尊重规则的多边主义世界的不可忽视的理论和政治上的捍卫、复兴和建构。泛非主义既非进步也非保守，而是可以兼顾多元主义和主权主义的。在极右翼运动兜售反移民观念时，泛非主义的本土主义是危险的。因此，理解泛非主义对多元化政治议程的传播和合法化对于国际关系、泛非主义者和世界秩序的未来都是至关重要的。

Contrary to common assumptions that the liberal world order was ‘made in the
West’, this article argues that it was produced in interaction with Pan-
African ideology and actors. Developing a morphological analysis, it
identifies three contending visions of world order within Pan-Africanism: a
world of continental unity and transnational solidarity; a world of national
sovereignty; and a world of racially defined units. It concludes that Pan-
Africanism contains intellectual and political resources for the defence,
reinvigoration, and invention of a more just, equal and rule-bound
multilateral world, but that this cannot be taken for granted. Pan-Africanism
is neither inherently progressive, nor reactionary, and can support
multilateralism and sovereigntism in equal measure. Pan-Africanism’s nativism
also carries particular risks at a time when similar identitarian viewpoints
are promoted by Radical Right movements. Understanding the manner in which
Pan-Africanism informs and legitimises diverse political agendas is thus of
crucial importance for IR, for Pan-Africanists, and for the future of world
order.

  

 **【编译】朱文菡**

 **【校对】胡贺**

  

 **3.**

“实践时间！”英国脱欧后安全与国防外交的信念未来

 **【题目】** ‘Practice time!’ Doxic futures in security and defence diplomacy
after Brexit

 **【作者】** Øyvind Svendsen（哥本哈根大学）

  

 **【摘要】**
时间构成社会生活，时间管理是国际政治日常行为的核心。然而，由于某种原因，国际关系的实践阶段产生了关于过去的实践如何构成国际政治的知识，而不是关于未来也是社会生活的构成特征的知识。本文从实践和时间性的新视角出发，指出国际政治从业者对未来的主体性描绘有助于对政治过程的理解和国际政治的形成。为了使看起来是矛盾的事情，即“未来实践”是由隐性知识和有意识的反思同时驱动的，得以显现。本文提出信念未来（doxic
future）的新概念，用术语阐明当前的这一矛盾。这一概念指：以实践知识为基础的未来表现和对社会的不言自明性质的隐形假设。英国投票退出欧盟后，欧洲安全和国防外交的案例研究就说明了这一论点。通过设想两个具体的信念未来，即“欧洲集体采购”（‘Europe
of buying together’）和英国作为欧盟防御的第三国，外交官们试图避免由英国脱欧对欧洲集体安全和防务合作带来的分裂效应。

Time constitutes social life and time management is central to the everyday
conduct of international politics. For some reason, however, the practice turn
in International Relations (IR) has produced knowledge about how past
practices constitute international politics but not about how the future is
also a constitutive feature in and on social life. Introducing a novel
perspective on practice and temporality, the article argues that
intersubjectively situated representations of the future by practitioners in
international politics contribute substantially to our understanding of
political processes and the making of international politics. To develop what
appears a contradiction in terms – that ‘future-practices’ are driven by tacit
know-how and conscious reflection simultaneously – the article develops the
concept of doxic futures: representations of the future rooted in practical
knowledge and tacit assumptions about the self-evident nature of the social
world. The argument is illustrated with a case study of European security and
defence diplomacy after the UK voted to leave the EU. Through the envisioning
of two concrete doxic futures, a ‘Europe of buying together’ and the UK as a
third country in EU defence, diplomats effectively tried to save European
security and defence cooperation from the potentially disintegrating effects
of Brexit.

  

 **【编译】缪高意**

 **【校对】虞敷扬**

 ****

  

 **4.**

利益、观念和新古典现实主义对国家行为的研究

 **【题目】** Interests, ideas, and the study of state behaviour in neoclassical
realism

 **【作者】** Gustav
Meibauer（伦敦政治经济学院博士后研究员，主要研究决策制定、军事干预和新古典现实主义对外交政策分析与国际关系理论的贡献）

  

 **【摘要】**
观念变量经常被运用在对国家行为的实证主义和物质主义分析之中。但是，当涉及到观念时，这些研究几乎不可避免地面临理论困境。本文作者提出，要将观念因素整合到对国家行为的实证主义和物质主义研究方法中，需要满足以下两个条件：（1）在概念上区分利益和观念、个人信念和社会观念；（2）解决操作性和可测量性的问题。为了实现这一目标，作者运用新古典现实主义进行案例研究。作者认为，在政治考量中，对观念重新进行概念化，作为个人信念的外在表现，可以使新古典现实主义者认识到观念和观念上的竞争如何干预从物质给定的利益到对外政策选择这么一条传送带。同时，它能更清楚地将语言和交流中可识别的思想操作化。作者建议，这种再概念化尽管与现实主义范式假定相一致，但不必被限制于新古典现实主义。实际上，它也可以被运用于不同的范式，同样会使具有实证主义思想的建构主义者和制度主义者避免在概念和方法上面临由不同的观念因素导致的困境。

Ideational variables have frequently been employed in positivist-minded and
materialist analyses of state behaviour. Almost inevitably, because of these
commitments, such studies run into theoretical challenges relating to the use
of ideas. In this article, I suggest that integrating ideational factors in
positivist and materialist approaches to state behaviour requires: (1)
distinguishing conceptually between interests and ideation as well as between
individual beliefs and social ideas; and (2) addressing challenges of
operationalisation and measurability. To that end, I employ neoclassical
realism as a case study. I argue that a re-conceptualisation of ideas as
externalised individual beliefs employed in political deliberation allows
neoclassical realists to focus on how ideas and ideational competition
intervene in the transmission belt from materially given interests to foreign
policy choice. At the same time, it more clearly operationalises ideas as
identifiable in language and communication. I suggest this
reconceptualisation, while consistent with realist paradigmatic assumptions,
need not be limited to neoclassical realism. Instead, transposed to different
paradigms, it would similarly allow positivist-minded constructivists and
institutionalists to avoid a conceptually and methodologically awkward
equation of different ideational factors.

  

 **【编译】李雯珲**

 **【校对】丁伟航**

  

 **5.**

战争的成本：慰问金和杀害平民的政治

 **【题目】** The costs of war: Condolence payments and the politics of killing
civilians  

 **【作者】** Thomas Gregory（奥克兰大学政治与国际关系讲师）

  

 **【摘要】**
联军向阿富汗和伊拉克平民提供了5000多万美元的慰问金。这些慰问金并不是用以承认错误，而是表达同情。而且慰问金项目本身也因武断、前后不一，以及对平民生命的估值过低而备受批评。本文将追溯支撑这一计划并影响其发展的战略必要性，而未过多关注与慰问金相关的实际问题和交战双方是否应该赔偿受害者的规范性争论。随着联军开始认识到平民伤亡的战略成本，他们使用各种策略来减轻平民伤亡对军事行动成功的影响。本文认为，支付慰问金不应被视为承认和回应平民痛苦的人道主义做派，而应视为一种武器系统，旨在确保达到具体的军事目标。因此，本文将探讨这一现象，即联军视慰问金为达到目的的手段，而非目的本身，这将继续物化和贬低阿富汗和伊拉克人的生命。

Coalition forces have spent upwards of $50 million on condolence payments to
Afghan and Iraqi civilians. These condolence payments were intended as an
expression of sympathy rather than an admission of fault, and the programme
itself has been criticised for the arbitrary, inconsistent, and low valuation
of civilian lives. Rather than focus on the practical problems associated with
condolence payments or normative arguments about whether belligerents ought to
compensate those harmed, this article will trace the strategic imperativesthat
underpinned this programme and shaped its development. As coalition forces
began to recognise the strategic costs of civilian casualties, they used a
variety of tactics to mitigate the effects of civilian casualties on the
success of military operations. This article will argue that condolence
payments should not be seen as a humanitarian gesture designed to recognise
and respond to the suffering of ordinary civilians, but will argue that
condolence payments should be viewed as a weapons system aimed at securing
specific military goals. As such, this article will argue that condolence
payments continued to objectify and devalue the lives of Afghans and Iraqis by
treating them as a means to an end rather than an end in themselves.

  

 **【编译】赵柳希**

 **【校对】叶扶疏**

  

 **6.**

“难民也能成为创业者”：人道主义、种族和叙利亚难民的营销

 **【题目】** ‘#Refugees can be entrepreneurs too!’ Humanitarianism, race, and the
marketing of Syrian refugees  

 **【作者】** Lewis Turner（德国弗莱堡大学）

  

 **【摘要】**
随着移民政策日益被重视，“难民创业者”在人道主义、媒体和学术界对难民的描述中变得越来越重要。约旦的扎塔里难民营被认为是难民“创业精神”的展示窗口，通过对该难民营的研究，本文认为将叙利亚难民群体认定为“创业者”是叙利亚人在种族殖民阶层中的定位，这一点在人道主义工作中处处体现着。对于约旦的许多人道主义工作者来说，叙利亚人的创业能力使他们有别于被动、穷困、依赖人道主义援助的非洲难民群体。在没有明确的种族对比的情况下，人道主义机构在网上把叙利亚难民宣传为“创业者”，让他们被认为更接近白人，从而更容易被西方受众和捐赠者接受，因为他们被想象成白人。本文扩展了学界对种族和人道主义之间关系的理解。此外，它还对“难民创业者”愿景的政治性影响提出了一些关键问题。“难民创业者”不需要政治支持和团结，他们需要获得的是资本主义自由市场的力量。

In the context of a greater focus on the politics of migration, the ‘refugee
entrepreneur’ has become an increasingly important figure in humanitarian,
media, and academic portrayals of refugees. Through a focus on Jordan’s
Za‘tari refugee camp, which has been deemed a showcase for refugees’
‘entrepreneurship’, this article argues that the designation of Syrian
refugees as ‘entrepreneurs’ is a positioning of Syrians within colonial
hierarchies of race that pervade humanitarian work. For many humanitarian
workers in Jordan, Syrians’ ‘entrepreneurship’ distinguishes them from
‘African’ refugees, who are imagined as passive, impoverished, and dependent
on humanitarian largesse. Without explicit racial comparisons, humanitarian
agencies simultaneously market Syrian refugees online as ‘entrepreneurs’, to
enable them to be perceived as closer to whiteness, and to thereby render them
more acceptable to Western audiences and donors, who are imagined as white.
This article extends scholarly understandings of the understudied relationship
between race and humanitarianism. Furthermore, it asks critical questions
about the political work and effects of vision of the ‘refugee entrepreneur’,
which it locates within the context of the increasingly neoliberalised refugee
regime. ‘Refugee entrepreneurs’ do not need political support and solidarity,
but to be allowed to embrace the forces of free-market capitalism.

  

 **【编译】阮含含**

 **【校对】叶扶疏**

  

 **7.**

超越软实力/硬实力二元对立：以中日领土争端为例

 **【题目】** Traversing the soft/hard power binary: The case of the Sino-Japanese
territorial dispute  

 **【作者】** Linus Hagström（瑞典国防大学政治学教授，瑞典国际事务研究所高级研究员）；潘成鑫（迪肯大学国际关系副教授）

  

 **【摘要】**
在国际关系中，软实力和硬实力被概念化为经验上和规范上的两个分支，在实践上两者是相反的，一种是抽象的，有吸引力的且具有合法性，另一种是具体的，有强制力却缺乏合法性。本文批判了这种二元对立的概念化，并认为这种二元对立的概念和“自我”（self）与“他者”（other）的建构同时发生，并为其服务。文章进一步证明通常被定位为软、硬实力的实践是紧密联系在一起的。最好将软、硬实力分别理解为“表象力”（
representational force）和“物理力”（ physical
force）。它们通过生产和纪律形式的权力运作相互交织，文章通过分析中日之间关于钓鱼岛/尖阁诸岛的争端来说明这一论点。两国政府在构建各自版本的事件以及自我、他者关系时都运用了表象力，软、硬实力二元对立本身扮演着一个角色，因为“自我”通常与软实力联系在一起，而“他者”则与硬实力联系在一起。再者，生产力的运行使前者的吸引力和后者的排斥性获得了优势，而纪律性权力在两个主体身上都强化了这些区别。最终双方通过进一步加强自我、他者的区分，使各自即将采取针对对方的暴力行为合法化，从而呈现实践中软、硬实力是如何无法分离的。

Soft power and hard power are conceptualised in International Relations as
empirically and normatively dichotomous, and practically opposite – one
intangible, attractive, and legitimate, the other tangible, coercive, and less
legitimate. This article critiques this binary conceptualisation, arguing that
it is discursively constructed with and for the construction of Self and
Other. It further demonstrates that practices commonly labelled and understood
as soft power and hard power are closely interconnected. Best understood as
‘representational force’ and ‘physical force’ respectively, soft and hard
power intertwine through the operation of productive and disciplinary forms of
power. We illustrate this argument by analysing the Sino-Japanese dispute over
the Diaoyu/Senkaku Islands. Both governments exercise representational force
in constructing their respective versions of events and Self/Other. The
soft/hard power binary itself plays a performative role as the Self is
typically associated with soft power and the Other with hard power. The
operation of productive power, moreover, privileges the attractiveness of the
former and the repellence of the latter, and disciplinary power physically
enforces these distinctions on subjects in both states. Finally, reinforced
Self/Other distinctions legitimise preparations for violence against the Other
on both sides, thus exposing how fundamentally entangled soft and hard power
are in practice.

  

 **【编译】杨帆**

 **【校对】晋玉**

  

<img src='/images/2854/9.jpeg' width='100%' />

  

[
【重磅预告】国政学人推出顶级期刊学术动态速递！](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247491171&idx=1&sn=2a85bb565727b76c5b24b621374df48d&chksm=eb3f8025dc48093384d58425e3e2b1aa5853945f019731843983f637cd10493d5764495c6f21&scene=21#wechat_redirect)  

[【新刊速递】第01期 | Review of International Studies Vol.45, No.4,
2019](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247491176&idx=1&sn=62d8e6bee24ba548761d1a73189ccd2e&chksm=eb3f802edc48093855ed40cc94c341a83b2fdf2530598bf8422df0f6096ffd16e378565eaaec&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[【新刊速递】第02期 | International Relations Vol.33, No.3,
2019](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247491305&idx=1&sn=6f8a5a5a4ca671e1afd5c3255559a6f8&chksm=eb3f80afdc4809b972897cadec43b5df2bebb2fcfa65840be0a56d94ddd5fc55e3698f9a31ca&scene=21#wechat_redirect)  

[【新刊速递】第03期 | International Organization Vol.73, No.3,
2019](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247491491&idx=1&sn=ec3ee80de53bfe268369be9f300f3010&chksm=eb3f81e5dc4808f3eb63419d51bbee74a57a1e3d0ad4a1a701185de1773b1c720ca2b266f6f8&scene=21#wechat_redirect)  

[【新刊速递】第04期 | World Politics, Vol.71, No.4,
2019](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247491616&idx=1&sn=5a0375814aac85642bc6912b77495f68&chksm=eb3c7e66dc4bf770dae1db0b927830353420075dbda598865d54e138df9d1be129a494821e5f&scene=21#wechat_redirect)  

[【新刊速递】第05期 | European Journal of International
Relations](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247491847&idx=1&sn=60160947f56ac2204eaa2963e962acdc&chksm=eb3c7f41dc4bf65796203da426ee0fdd27707ff5c83d4a5a0524d7e6b653edd93df877a44759&scene=21#wechat_redirect)  

[【新刊速递】第06期 | Security Studies, Vol.28, No.4,
2019](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247491960&idx=1&sn=89da9f62c7dc5329a63a19b40343369a&chksm=eb3c7f3edc4bf628ff1964b21502b5b87e44053290f95742d67116973f3beb666729df9dbf2b&scene=21#wechat_redirect)  

[【新刊速递】第07期|International Security, Vol 44, No. 2,
2019](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247492076&idx=1&sn=30c272dbf6e674a854c6b2b9dd46693d&chksm=eb3c7faadc4bf6bc02ede6c0612719fc5e896c62a14e41c0515ab78afd39e707177921e84927&scene=21#wechat_redirect)  

[【新刊速递】第08期| Cambridge Review of International
Affairs,Vol.32,No.4](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247492141&idx=1&sn=c5e0769322df21c31c28103654650cbb&chksm=eb3c7c6bdc4bf57da32a34e3a2b93c43c581889b9edd4b33124286b495b8558516b65772a778&scene=21#wechat_redirect)  

[【新刊速递】第09期| International Relations of Asia-Pacific
Vol.19,No.3](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247492278&idx=1&sn=fd81f9d22f9980dbb83c5e0ea628283e&chksm=eb3c7cf0dc4bf5e686c55ce1e09ec69bbc7cba232861dabcb8406f7cd0b948c44e9151357b3c&scene=21#wechat_redirect)  

[【新刊速递】第10期 | International Studies Review, Volume.21, No.3,
2019](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247492397&idx=1&sn=eba5c7ac77425d055cc77adc8b840d87&chksm=eb3c7d6bdc4bf47dddadc2f0acdb58df7eddea49ba2e1b8b4f43a717b0d709527e52f440c2b6&scene=21#wechat_redirect)  
[【新刊速递】第11期|Cooperation and Conflict, Vol. 54, No. 4,
2019](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247492467&idx=1&sn=8f14de0139132ff75bc2a4d65134fb46&chksm=eb3c7d35dc4bf423fc2530eefec808f8b79088c17c85e553d5dd3bfb6e44fa0d61923ffdde00&scene=21#wechat_redirect)[【新刊速递】第12期
| International Affairs, Vol.95,
No.6，2019](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247492609&idx=1&sn=191db9f3c9de8c4025aff74a78640047&chksm=eb3c7a47dc4bf351014b85e135c7504c204ee44be0dbe9938ad19e5c372776fabd1846b5ad6b&scene=21#wechat_redirect)  
[【新刊速递】第13期|Chinese Journal of International Politics, No.4,
2019](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247492878&idx=1&sn=d1245d7cac4374fa223eabf2c6f54aef&chksm=eb3c7b48dc4bf25e9f50589f74a47fa641f99d714001e9062e916cf679f8aec298b688631791&scene=21#wechat_redirect)  

[【新刊速递】第14期|Chinese Journal of International Politics, No.3,
2019](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247492950&idx=1&sn=4ce79e542f07012da1b70ca0f0cfe466&chksm=eb3c7b10dc4bf206511edf9c1bc67c8b889d6746aa77dc4b4565903fdad8d17824b707a4c3ef&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[【新刊速递】第15期 | International Organization, No.4,
2019](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247493077&idx=1&sn=fa4d9ba1d7edaad4820760342d8fa0ff&chksm=eb3c7b93dc4bf28533d98a9b4b66ee0c92d50c6e4b93a279e4fb27f852889e25beee1aa6de74&scene=21#wechat_redirect)  

[【新刊速递】第16期 | International Studies Quarterly, No.4,
2019](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247493201&idx=1&sn=e8b0f97a979f7e20b5d459c9166ed7a0&chksm=eb3c7817dc4bf101f9410289c0d7e68396166227ddc3405f082e6efa548b70af6c2f78ec5f08&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[【新刊速递】第17期 | World Politics, Vol.72, No.1,
2020](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247493259&idx=1&sn=2ac06360bcaef34a60ae7c7ab879c7a0&chksm=eb3c78cddc4bf1dba12d2ec72ee208182ddc6eee1f8af520c9af6e2536c244874c69acfec52c&token=2048870927&lang=zh_CN&scene=21#wechat_redirect)  

[【新刊速递】第18期 | Security Studies Vol.28, No.5,
2019](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247493395&idx=1&sn=282cd36632b1a653a7ad7c61c8f2b555&chksm=eb3c7955dc4bf043c803a4a7d957e502c9ba0ef481e91d85dc1a0276e81fe9cf943a60e71065&token=2048870927&lang=zh_CN&scene=21#wechat_redirect)  

<img src='/images/2854/10.gif' width='100%' />

![]()

国政学人

支持学术公益与知识传播

![赞赏二维码]() **微信扫一扫赞赏作者** __赞赏

已喜欢，[对作者说句悄悄话](javascript:;)

取消 __

#### 发送给作者

发送

最多40字，当前共字

[](javascript:;) 人赞赏

上一页 [1](javascript:;)/3 下一页

长按二维码向我转账

支持学术公益与知识传播

![赞赏二维码]()

受苹果公司新规定影响，微信 iOS 版的赞赏功能被关闭，可通过二维码转账支持公众号。

