---
title: 【新刊速递】第51期|InternationalStudiesQuarterly,Volume64,No.3
date: 2020-09-27 20:00:00
author: 
tags: 
---


收录于合集

![](/images/1865/2.jpeg)<img src='/images/1865/3.png' width='100%' /><img
src='/images/1865/4.png' width='100%' /><img src='/images/1865/5.png'
width='100%' /><img src='/images/1865/6.png' width='100%' />

  

**期刊简介**

<img src='/images/1865/7.png' width='100%' />

《国际研究季刊》（International Studies
Quarterly）是国际研究协会的旗舰期刊，由牛津大学出版社每年发行四期，旨在发表与国际研究中重要理论性、实证性、规范性主题相关的领先学术成果。根据Journal
Citation Reports的数据，2019年该期刊的影响因子为2.146。

  

 **本期编委**

 **【编译】** 常佳艺 肖龙 王馨翊 李源 杨紫茵 陈晓茹

 **【审校】** 肖龙 陈晓茹 王馨翊 常佳艺 杨紫茵 李源 张曼娜

 **【排版】** 谭誉豪

![](/images/1865/8.jpeg)

  

 **本期目录**

 **1\. 边境墙是否有效？边界壁垒遏制暴力战争行为跨境蔓延的效力分析**

Do Walls Work? The Effectiveness of Border Barriers in Containing the Cross-
Border Spread of Violent Militancy

 **2\. 未来领导人更替何时能够促进和平？**

When Prospective Leader Turnover Promotes Peace

 **3\. 摇摆的页岩：页岩油，全球石油市场和石油的地缘政治**

Swinging Shale: Shale Oil, the Global Oil Market, and the Geopolitics of Oil

 **4\. 为何国际组织会承诺接纳自由主义规范**

Why International Organizations Commit to Liberal Norms

 **5\. 想象的共同体中想象的不安全：把种族宗教的“他者”编造为安全威胁**

Imagined Insecurities in Imagined Communities: Manufacturing the
Ethnoreligious Others as Security Threats

 **6\. 思想和影响力的斗争：中国共产党的全球宣传**

The Struggle for Minds and Influence: The Chinese Communist Party's Global
Outreach

  

 **01**

 **边境墙是否有效？边界壁垒遏制暴力战争行为跨境蔓延的效力分析**  

 **【题目】** Do Walls Work? The Effectiveness of Border Barriers in Containing
the Cross-Border Spread of Violent Militancy

 **【作者】** Christopher Linebarger，美国马萨诸塞大学洛厄尔分校恐怖主义和安全研究中心助理教授；Alex
Braithwaite，美国亚利桑那大学政府与公共政策学院教授。

 **【摘要】**
冷战结束后，围墙、栅栏和防御工事接连出现在各国边境上。然而，这些防御工事能否提供有效的安全保障仍是一个未知数。本文将探讨边境防御工事是否有能力防止暴力战争行为的跨国蔓延。作者认为，尽管壁垒可以降低战争行动跨国扩散的可能性，但其有效性取决于防御设施所在地区地形的险峻程度以及周边地区基础设施的建设水平。边境壁垒需要密集的人力来监视和巡逻，因此崎岖的地形和糟糕的基础设施会使得安保活动更加难以进行。然而，叛乱分子和其他武装分子则更愿意在这些行动不便的地区活动，这一情况最终降低了边境壁垒在遏制暴力战争行为跨境蔓延方面的有效性。毗连国家定向二元年份（directed-
dyad-
years）的全球样本中对新近整理的国家间边界防御工事数据的分析结果表明：边境防御工事只有在各国能够合理地监控和监管其边境的情况下，才能有效限制战争行为的扩散。本篇文章对国家安全与国内冲突领域的学术文献有重要的启发作用，亦有助于扩展围绕边境墙与边界围栏的政策辩论的讨论范围。

  

Since the end of the Cold War, walls, fences, and fortifications have been
constructed on interstate borders at a rapid rate. It remains unclear,
however, whether these fortifications provide effective security. We explore
whether border fortifications provide security against the international
spread of violent militancy. Although barriers can reduce the likelihood that
militant activity diffuses across international borders, their effectiveness
is conditional upon the roughness of the terrain on which they are built and
the level of infrastructure development in their proximity. Barriers require
intensive manpower to monitor and patrol, and so conditions like rough terrain
and poor infrastructure render security activity more difficult. However,
rebels and other militants prefer to operate in such difficult areas,
ultimately reducing the effectiveness of barriers in containing the
international spread of violent militancy. Analyses on newly collated data on
interstate border fortifications within a global sample of contiguous-state
directed-dyad-years show that border fortifications are only effective in
limiting the diffusion of militancy in contexts in which states can plausibly
monitor and police their borders. This paper has significant implications for
the academic literatures on national security and intrastate conflict, and it
also speaks to the broader policy debate over border walls and fences.

  

 **【编译】** 常佳艺

 **【校对】** 李源

 **【审核】** 张曼娜

  

 **02**

 **未来领导人更替何时能够促进和平？**  

 **【题目】** When Prospective Leader Turnover Promotes Peace

 **【作者】** Robert Schub，美国内布拉斯加大学林肯分校政治科学系助理教授

 **【摘要】**
学术界通常将领导人更替与高军事冲突风险联系在一起。本文却展示出在一些特定条件下，未来领导班子的更替将较有可能为当下带来和平。当国家采取代价高昂的和平措施时（例如，武装备战进而威慑对手），可行的非战争解决办法的数量将减少，冲突风险上升。若是和平成本过于昂贵，则潜在领导者的更替，会增加威慑措施的成本及其未来需求的不确定性，从而促进和平。当对立国家处在代价高昂的和平关系中，且领导人更替的可能性极低时，国家发动进攻在所难免。而当其他条件不变，但领导人更替的可能性很高时，国家则会自愿忍受当下昂贵的劣性和平以换取未来潜在的良性和平。未来和平成本变化的不对称后果则可以保证此种关系就算是在预期代价不降反升的情况下也同样成立。作者在对可能的未来领导人更替，军费支出和敌对国间是否开战这三个变量进行定量分析后，得出与以上假说吻合的结果。理论和实践均表明，对领导人更替的预期使国家间的互相隐忍变成一种稳妥且精明的政策选择。

  

Scholars typically associate leader turnover with a high risk of military
conflict. This article shows that under some conditions, a higher likelihood
of leader turnover in the future fosters peace today. When states take costly
peaceful measures (e.g., arming to deter adversaries), the range of
settlements preferable to war shrinks and the risk of conflict rises. If peace
costs are onerous, potential leader turnover in adversaries promotes peace by
introducing uncertainty about the future need for and costs of deterrent
measures. When locked in a costly peace with minimal chance of leader turnover
in the adversary, states attack. When locked in that same costly peace but
with high prospects for leader turnover, states endure an unfavorable peace
today given the potential for a favorable one tomorrow. Asymmetric
consequences of future shifts in peace costs ensure the relationship holds
even if costs do not change in expectation and could rise. Quantitative
analyses of the prospects for future leader turnover, military spending, and
war initiation among rivals accord with the hypothesized relationships. In
theory and practice, expectations of leadership volatility make it prudent to
exercise peaceful forbearance.

  

 **【编译】** 肖龙

 **【校对】** 陈晓茹

 **【审核】** 李源

  

 **03**

 **摇摆的页岩：页岩油，全球石油市场和石油的地缘政治**  

 **【题目】** Swinging Shale: Shale Oil, the Global Oil Market, and the
Geopolitics of Oil

 **【作者】** Inwook Kim，新加坡管理大学政治学副教授

 **【摘要】**
页岩油是否在对全球石油市场和石油地缘政治进行革命？如果是，这又是怎样做到的？虽然传统观念认为页岩热潮最主要的影响在于页岩油作为一种新能源导致了2014到2015年间的能源价格暴跌，但作者认为页岩油所带来的最具革命性、同时也最不被理解的变化是页岩油生产商由于其独特的开采技术和成本结构而成为新的摇摆供应商（swing
suppliers）。页岩油生产商的动机、背景和可利用的过剩产能也与传统的摇摆生产商不同。因此，尽管页岩油降低了中期的价格上限，但并不能消除短期的价格波动。通过研究页岩油问世以来的石油地缘政治，作者分析了这种新的市场格局是否以及如何改变了美国的一系列外交政策，包括可能的石油供应中断、沙特阿拉伯在美国大战略中长期享有的特殊地位、美国撤出波斯湾的缘由，乃至当今最大的石油进口国中国和主要石油出口国俄罗斯的外交政策。

  

Is shale oil “revolutionizing” the global oil market and the geopolitics of
oil? If so, how? While two aspects of the shale boom—a new source of supply
and a cause for the price collapse in 2014–2015—dominate the conventional
wisdom, I argue that the most revolutionary change is the least understood
aspect of shale oil—shale oil producers’ rise as new swing suppliers due to
its unique extraction technique and cost structure. Shale oil producers also
differ from traditional swing producers in motives, contexts, and an amount of
accessible excess capacity such that while shale oil lowers the medium-term
price ceiling, it does not eliminate short-term price volatility. By examining
the geopolitics of oil since the advent of shale oil, I analyze how such new
market realities have or have not altered the US foreign policy on issues
involving possible oil supply disruptions, Saudi Arabia's long-held special
status in US grand strategy, rationale for US withdrawal from the Persian
Gulf, and the foreign policy of China, the largest oil importer today, and
Russia, a major petrostate.

  

 **【编译】** 王馨翊

 **【校对】** 肖龙

 **【审核】** 李源

  

 **04**

 **为何国际组织会承诺接纳自由主义规范**  

 **【题目】** Why International Organizations Commit to Liberal Norms

 **【作者】** Jonas Tallberg，斯德哥尔摩大学政治学教授；Magnus Lundgren，斯德哥尔摩大学政治学助理教授；Thomas
Sommerer，斯德哥尔摩大学政治学助理教授；Theresa Squatrito，伦敦政治经济学院国际关系助理教授

 **【摘要】**
近几十年来，可持续发展、性别平等与人类安全等一系列的自由主义规范在全球治理领域出现并广泛传播。既有文献关注了一些特定规范的发展轨迹，但较少涉及各国际组织对自由主义规范的承诺模式与来源。基于1980年至2015年国际组织政策决策的数据库，本文首次对这些承诺进行了一个比较性的大样本分析。在区分深层规范承诺与浅层规范认同的基础上，本文认为国际组织对自由主义规范的深层承诺主要源于内部条件：民主政体的成员国与有利于规范倡导的制度设计。相比之下，在现有研究中经常被提及的国际组织外部环境中的合法性标准则主要解释了国际组织对自由主义规范的浅层认同。

  

Recent decades have witnessed the emergence and spread of a broad range of
liberal norms in global governance, among them sustainable development, gender
equality, and human security. While existing scholarship tells us a lot about
the trajectories of particular norms, we know much less about the broader
patterns and sources of commitments to liberal norms by international
organizations (IOs). This article offers the first comparative large-N
analysis of such commitments, building on a unique dataset on IO policy
decisions over the time period 1980–2015. Distinguishing between deep norm
commitment and shallow norm recognition, the analysis produces several novel
findings. We establish that IOs’ deeper commitments to liberal norms primarily
are driven by internal conditions: democratic memberships and institutional
designs more conducive to norm entrepreneurship. In contrast, legitimacy
standards in the external environment of IOs, often invoked in existing
research, mainly account for shallower recognition or “talk” of norms.

  

 **【编译】** 李源

 **【校对】** 常佳艺

 **【审核】** 王馨翊

  

 **05**

 **想象的共同体中想象的不安全：把种族宗教的“他者”编造为安全威胁**  

 **【题目】** Imagined Insecurities in Imagined Communities: Manufacturing the
Ethnoreligious Others as Security Threats

 **【作者】** Michael Intal Magcamit，伦敦玛丽女王大学政治与国际关系学院玛丽亚·斯克沃多夫斯卡·居里研究员。

 **【摘要】**
曾经亲切和友好的种族宗教社群如何成为了陌生人和威胁？本文研究了导致多元政治体内部种族宗教竞争派别编造其他派别威胁本派别的相对安全、权力和地位的潜在因果机制。笔者通过运用批判安全、宗教和民族主义的补充理论建构了一个框架。该框架捕捉和解释了随着时间的流逝所建构、社会化和合法化关于种族宗教的“他者”的威胁性概念和叙事的过程和动态。为了理论地探究和经验地展示此框架的有效性，作者运用解释性过程跟踪方法，调查了在印度尼西亚穆斯林和基督徒社群间的集体想象的威胁是如何演变成实际的安全威胁。利用本文在实地研究中收集的新的定性数据进行理论和实证分析所得出的论据表明，这种沙文主义的零和现象是通过三段因果机制形成的。该因果机制包括培育种族宗教民族主义的敌对情感，利用敌对符号标签化其他种族宗教群体，以及对不可分割的种族宗教身份和故土的敌对印象进行神圣化。

  

How does a once familiar and benign ethnoreligious community become a stranger
and a threat? This article examines the underlying causal mechanisms driving
rival ethnoreligious factions within pluralistic polities to frame each other
as threats to their relative security, power, and status. Drawing on
complementary theories from critical security, religious, and nationalism
studies, I develop a framework that captures and explains the processes and
dynamics through which threatening conceptions and narratives about the
ethnoreligious others are constructed, socialized, and legitimized over time.
To theoretically probe and empirically demonstrate the utility of this
framework, I examine how the collective imagined insecurities among Muslim and
Christian communities in Indonesia have crystallized into tangible security
threats using the interpretive process tracing method. Evidences produced from
my theoretical and empirical analyses using the novel qualitative data I
gathered from my field research reveal that this chauvinistic, zero-sum
phenomenon proceeds via a three-phase othering causal mechanism comprised of
cultivation of hostile emotive effects of ethnoreligious nationalism,
securitization of othered ethnoreligious groups using hostile symbolic
predispositions, and sacralization of hostile perceptions of indivisible
ethnoreligious identities and homelands.

  

 **【编译】** 杨紫茵

 **【校对】** 李源

 **【审核】** 常佳艺

  

 **06**

 **思想和影响力的斗争：中国共产党的全球宣传**  

 **【题目】** The Struggle for Minds and Influence: The Chinese Communist Party’s
Global Outreach

 **【作者】** Christine Hackenesch，德国发展研究所高级研究员；Julia Bader，阿姆斯特丹大学助理教授。

 **【摘要】**
本文着重强调中国对外关系中一个经常被忽视却非常重要的部门，即中共中央对外联络部（以下简称“中联部”）。本文借助公开的文档，系统地分析了自21世纪以来，中国共产党对外关系的发展模式。中联部通过频繁的旅行外交，在全球构建了广泛的政治精英网络。如今中联部的全球参与已经不断深入，但是自现任领导人上任后，中国共产党更加大了与其他政党联系的力度。本文发现，党际关系不仅能够推进中国外交政策目标的实现，更能推动中国对全球秩序的改革。不仅如此，中国通过分享其经济现代化和中国共产党领导的政党制度的经验，不断扩大中国及中国共产党的影响力。对中国共产党的党际关系展开跨区域性研究，不仅有助于我们更好地理解中国共产党在中国外交决策过程中的作用，同时也能为研究中国对外关系、影响力扩散与跨国关系之间的交汇点，提供一种新的研究议程。

  

This paper addresses a largely overlooked actor in China's foreign relations,
the International Department of the Communist Party of China (ID-CPC). Using
publicly available documentation, we systematically analyze the patterns of
the CPC's external relations since the early 2000s. Building on an intense
travel diplomacy, the ID-CPC maintains a widely stretched network to political
elites across the globe. The ID-CPC's engagement is not new; but since Xi
Jinping took office, the CPC has bolstered its efforts to reach out to other
parties. We find that party relations not only serve as an additional channel
to advance China's foreign policy interests. Since President Xi has come to
power, party relations also emerged as a key instrument to promote China's
vision for reforming the global order. Moreover, China increasingly uses the
party channel as a vehicle of authoritarian learning by sharing experiences of
its economic modernization and authoritarian one-party regime. The cross-
regional analysis of the CPC's engagement with other parties helps us to
better understand the role of the CPC in Chinese foreign policy-making,
pointing to a new research agenda at the intersection of China's foreign
relations, authoritarian diffusion, and transnational relations.

  

 **【编译】** 陈晓茹

 **【校对】** 王馨翊

 **【审核】** 李源

  

文章观点不代表本平台观点，本平台评译分享的文章均出于专业学习之用, 不以任何盈利为目的，内容主要呈现对原文的介绍，原文内容请通过各高校购买的数据库自行下载

 **  
**

 **  
**

 **  
**

 **添加 “国小政”微信**

 **获取最新资讯**

![](/images/1865/9.jpeg)![](/images/1865/10.gif) <img
src='/images/1865/11.gif' width='100%' />

