---
title: 【新刊速递】第62期|InternationalRelations,Vol.34,No.3,2020
date: 2020-12-21 19:55:00
author: 国政学人
tags: ['新刊速递']
---


收录于合集 #新刊速递 123个

![](/images/1737/2.jpeg)<img src='/images/1737/3.png' width='100%' /><img
src='/images/1737/4.png' width='100%' /><img src='/images/1737/5.png'
width='100%' /><img src='/images/1737/6.png' width='100%' />

  

**期刊简介**

<img src='/images/1737/7.png' width='100%' />

International Relations（《国际关系》）是国际关系领域的顶尖期刊之一，由SAGE出版社与大卫·戴维斯纪念研究所(David
Davies Memorial
Institute)联合出版编辑，其2019年的影响因子为1.25。本期为特别专题，主题为：面向人类互联：展望未来的国际关系（Facing Human
Interconnections: Thinking IR into the Future）。

  

 **本期编委**

 **【编译】** 张曼娜 杨紫茵 朱晓洁 常佳艺 胡瑞琨

 **【审校】** 张曼娜 杨紫茵 朱晓洁 常佳艺 胡瑞琨

 **【排版】** 田意

![](/images/1737/8.jpeg)

  

 **本期目录**

 **1、** **面向人类互联：展望未来的国际关系**

Facing Human Interconnections: Thinking International Relations into the
Future

 **2、** **移民与“人”的政治：对抗国际关系学的主流议题**

Migration and the politics of ‘the human’: confronting the privileged subjects
of IR

 **3、** **超越“世界终结”的世界：白人的启示录视野与黑人、土著人和有色人种的未来主义**

Worlding beyond ‘the’ ‘end’ of ‘the world’: white apocalyptic visions and
BIPOC futurisms

 **4、** **奴隶、移民与跨国者的本体论地貌**

The slave, the migrant and the ontological topographies of the international

**5、** **洪水之后：新普世主义与后殖民差异**

After the deluge: new universalism and postcolonial difference

  

 **01**

 **面向人类互联：展望未来的国际关系**

 **【题目】** Facing Human Interconnections: Thinking International Relations into
the Future

 **【作者】** 《国际关系》期刊编辑Charalampos Efstathopoulos；Milja Kurki；Alistair Shepherd

 **【摘要】**
地球上的社群面临着许多复杂的挑战：人类社群内部与社群之间的关系变化、与生态与气候条件相关的关系的变化，以及技术与人类关系的变迁。移民、环境退化与新技术等不同领域中的复杂互联关系使学者们需要加强跨理论、跨范式、跨专业和跨学科的思考。但是，当我们试图理解国际关系学（IR）中复杂的现实时，我们应该如何把事物联系在一起呢?本文作为本期特辑《面向人类互联：展望未来的国际关系》的引言，讨论了人类互联这一开放性主题，这一概念大致贯穿了本期文章。本文所理解的人类互联，并没有一个精确或固定的定义，反而是一个具有多重含义和维度的开放性概念。实际上，作者们在文章中用了不同的方式来探讨各自在实证上、理论上、政治上的关切。然而，基于对未来的展望，这一概念也允许人们对国际关系学的潜力和局限性提出有趣的新问题，并就我们如何看待各种问题领域与各种“主义”的互联、国际关系学如何在互联中建构“人类”与“非人类”以及到底是什么引起了我们对互联的注意进行了辩论。在这里，我们阐述了人类互联这一概念的趣味性，以及我们需要保持其含义的开放性的原因。在本次特辑中，我们也根据作者们对人类互联的动态的分析，提供了六种不同的方向。

  

Communities on the planet are faced with complex challenges: changing
relations within and between human communities, changing relations with
ecological and climatic conditions, and shifts in technology-human
interconnections. The complex interconnections across issue areas – migration,
environmental degradation and new technologies, for example – demand that
scholars increasingly think across theories, paradigms, specialisms and
disciplines. But how should we ‘hold things together’ as we try to make sense
of complex realities in International Relations (IR)? This introductory
article to the Special Issue ‘Facing human interconnections: thinking
International Relations into the future’ discusses the open thematic of ‘human
interconnections’ that is used to loosely structure the contributions.
Analysis of human interconnections, as understood here, does not have a
precise or fixed definition but is considered an open-ended notion with varied
meanings and dimensions. Indeed, the authors engage it here in varied ways to
explore their empirical, theoretical and political concerns. Yet, this notion
also allows for interesting new questions to be posed on the potential and
limits of IR as it faces the future, and debates around how we see
interconnections between issue areas and ‘-isms’, how IR constructs ‘humans’
or ‘non-humans’ in interconnections, and what is at stake in bringing to our
attention unacknowledged interconnections. Here we set out why human
interconnection is an interesting notion to work with and why we need to keep
its meaning open-ended. We also provide an account of six different
orientations we observe amongst the authors tackling the dynamics of human
interconnections in this Special Issue.

  

 **【编译】** 张曼娜

 **【校对】** 杨紫茵

  

 **02**

 **移民与“人”的政治：对抗国际关系学的主流议题**

 **【题目】** Migration and the politics of ‘the human’: confronting the
privileged subjects of IR

 **【作者】** Vicki Squire，华威大学国际政治教授

 **【摘要】**
移民作为一个研究领域如何对国际关系学科作出贡献？移民作为一种现实经验如何启示研究相互联系的国际政治学？以及，移民作为一种政治和分析力量将如何迫使国际关系学对抗其主流议题？本文通过特别关注从南半球到北半球的不稳定移民来回应这一问题。它展现出批判学者如何拒绝移民是一个“全球挑战”或一个需要被解决的问题的提议，反而考虑治理移民的当代实践如何有效地对移民造成动荡。它也反映了批判研究如何指出嵌入治理实践中的殖民暴力种族化的长期动态趋势，以强调自由人道主义及其内含的“人”的政治问题的局限性。建立在反种族主义、本土主义和后殖民主义的学术研究之上，移民批判研究的学者可以很好地吸引人们注意到国际政治研究和实践中的一些议题不平等的问题。本文认为，在国际关系学拒绝学科建立的正统观念的同时，对这些作品进行批判，可以有助于理解当代国际政治研究中被淹没的声音和被主流学术研究压迫的现状。

  

In what ways has migration as a field of scholarship contributed to the
discipline of International Relations (IR)? How can migration as a lived
experience shed light on international politics as a field of
interconnections? And how might migration as a political and analytical force
compel IR to confront its privileged subjects? This article addresses these
questions by focusing specifically on precarious migration from the Global
South to the Global North. It shows how critical scholars refuse the
suggestion that such migrations pose a ‘global challenge’ or problem to be
resolved, considering instead how contemporary practices of governing
migration effectively produce precarity for many people on the move. It also
shows how critical works point to longer standing racialised dynamics of
colonial violence within which such governing practices are embedded, to
emphasise both the limitations of liberal humanitarianism as well as the
problematic politics of ‘the human’ that this involves. By building on the
insights of anti-racist, indigenous and postcolonial scholarship, critical
scholars of migration are well placed to draw attention to the privileging of
some subjects over others in the study and practice of international politics.
The article argues that engaging IR while rejecting the orthodoxies on which
the discipline is built remains critical for such works in order to advance
understanding of the silences and violences of contemporary international
politics.

  

 **【编译】** 杨紫茵

 **【校对】** 朱晓洁

  

 **03**

 **超越“世界终结”的世界：白人的启示录视野与黑人、土著人和有色人种的未来主义**  

 **【题目】** Worlding beyond ‘the end of the world’: white apocalyptic visions
and BIPOC futurisms

 **【作者】** Audra Mitchell，巴西里国际事务学院全球政治生态学加拿大研究主席；Aadita
Chaudhury，约克大学科学与技术研究学院博士候选人

 **【摘要】**
我们经常听闻“世界的终结”已经来临。但是确切地说，是谁的世界被预期会终结呢？在过去的几十年里，在国际关系、社会科学和流行文化中，兴起了一类兼具热度与影响力的作品，如关于“人类灭绝”“全球灾难性风险”和生态启示录等主题。它们由科学家、政治科学家、新闻记者所创作，面向广泛的公众，这些类型的作品诊断它们认为最严重的全球威胁，并提供保护“人类”未来的战略。本文将从两个方面批判性地介入这个题材的作品：第一，本文旨在展现现在的启示录叙事隐含一系列有问题的假设，这些假设揭示了它们并非被未来的一般关切所驱动，而是被保护白人未来的任务所驱动。第二，本文试图强调来自于黑人、土著人和有色人种的未来主义视野是如何重新想象一个更加正义和更有活力的未来。

  

We often hear that the ‘end of the world’ is approaching – but whose world,
exactly, is expected to end? Over the last several decades, a popular and
influential literature has emerged, in International Relations (IR), social
sciences, and in popular culture, on subjects such as ‘human extinction’,
‘global catastrophic risks’, and eco-apocalypse. Written by scientists,
political scientists, and journalists for wide public audiences, this genre
diagnoses what it considers the most serious global threats and offers
strategies to protect the future of ‘humanity’. This article will critically
engage this genre to two ends: first, we aim to show that the present
apocalyptic narratives embed a series of problematic assumptions which reveal
that they are motivated not by a general concern with futures but rather with
the task of securing white futures. Second, we seek to highlight how visions
drawn from Black, Indigenous and People of Color (BIPOC) futurisms re-imagine
more just and vibrant futures.

  

 **【编译】** 朱晓洁

 **【校对】** 常佳艺

  

 **04**

 **奴隶、移民与跨国者的本体论地貌**

 **【题目】** The slave, the migrant and the ontological topographies of the
international

 **【作者】** Amy Niang，南非金山大学高级讲师

 **【摘要】**
对奴隶形象和移民形象的研究表明，重要的历史性相互联系支撑着过去和现在对人类和“跨国者”的阐述。这些联系一直在被种族化，并在结构上构建了一个相互依存的世界社会。一系列工具化的话语偶尔会变成了支配移民政策的理性依据，特别是在911事件后的语境下，有些人可以被合理地驱逐出市民/公民领域，甚至这种驱逐理念正在逐渐规范化。奴隶在身心上被迫与亲属、故土强行分离，并在道德上与人类历史分离。移民被推出了生活价值的范围，也被推出了权利承担者的道德范畴。这两种现象形成的共性，根源于汲取式供给经济和人类的等级化排序。本文以弗雷德里克·道格拉斯（Frederick
Douglas）的历史为例，说明“关怀”作为关系性方法论的缺失限制了作为全球化世界标志的相互依赖价值。在此过程中，它挑战了新/后人文主义在未审视不同种族间人性形态的情况下所倡导的未经检验的激进相互依存假设。

  

An examination of the figure of the slave and the figure of migrant make
visible important historical interconnections that sustain past and present
elaborations of the human and ‘the international’. These interconnections have
always been racialised and they have structurally constituted the making of an
interdependent world community. A series of instrumentalised discourses, at
times turned into rationalities that govern policies towards migrants,
particularly in a post 9/11 context, increasingly normalises the idea that
there are people that can be justifiably expelled from the civic/civil, and
increasingly human sphere. The slave was forcefully removed, both physically
from attachment to kin and land, and morally from the history of humankind.
The migrant is pushed out of the bounds of the livable as well as the moral
category of rights-bearer. The commonalities that configure both phenomena are
rooted in an extractive supply economy and a hierarchised ordering of humans.
The article uses the history of Frederick Douglas to show that the absence of
‘care’ as methodology of relationality limits the valence of interdependence
as a marker of a globalised world. In doing so, it challenges the unexamined
assumptions of new/posthumanism that advocates radical interdependence without
interrogating the modalities of ‘humanity’ among different categories of
humans.

  

 **【编译】** 常佳艺

 **【审核】** 胡瑞琨

  

 **05**

 **洪水之后：新普世主义与后殖民差异**

 **【题目】** After the deluge: new universalism and postcolonial difference

 **【作者】** Charalampos Efstathopoulos，亚伯大学国际政治系讲师；Milja
Kurki，亚伯大学国际政治系爱德华·卡尔讲席教授；Alistair Shepherd，亚伯大学国际政治系高级讲师

 **【摘要】** 后殖民历史学家Dipesh
Chakrabarty（迪佩什·查克拉巴蒂）提出了一种新普世主义，对人类世（Anthropocene）挑战进行了直接反驳。新普世主义修正了对现代性中想象的时间性和人类能动性的理解，描绘了一个由人类历史纳入自然历史所产生的相互联系所塑造的完全不同的视野。Chakrabarty的新普世主义的一个关键要素是他深刻地否定了著名的后殖民理论中关于差异的主张。该主张急于在全球范围内消除晚期殖民主义的存续，以期建立一种尚未形成的行星意识。Chakrabarty在新普世主义中提出了反思国际关系这一深刻问题。然而，由于没有正确认识到沉淀差异，Chakrabarty最终还是重述了一遍世俗自由主义的世界普世主义叙事。本文的论点是，基于人类有限性概念的有区别的普世主义可以同时引起对后殖民时代的关注和对人类世的挑战。

  

This article probes the promises and anomalies of a new universalism proposed
by Dipesh Chakrabarty as an apparent retort to the challenge of the
Anthropocene. Revising established understandings of temporality and human
agency imagined within modernity, the new universalism depicts a radically
different horizon shaped by interconnections produced by the subsumption of
human history into natural history. A key element of Chakrabarty’s new
universalism is his dramatic repudiation of the reputed postcolonial claim of
difference which hurriedly dissolves the afterlife and persistence of
coloniality on a global scale in favour of a yet-to-be-forged planetary
consciousness. Chakrabarty’s new universalism raises profound questions for
rethinking International Relations (IR). However, without due cognisance of
sedimented difference, Chakrabarty ends up reciting the secular-liberal story
of one-world universalism. It is argued here that a differentiated
universalism organised around the notion of human finitude can simultaneously
attend to postcolonial concerns and the challenge of the Anthropocene.

  

 **【编译】** 胡瑞琨

 **【校对】** 赵怡雯

  

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**添加 “国小政”微信**

 **获取最新资讯**

![](/images/1737/9.jpeg)![](/images/1737/10.gif) <img
src='/images/1737/11.gif' width='100%' />  

![]()

国政学人

支持学术公益与知识传播

![赞赏二维码]() **微信扫一扫赞赏作者** __赞赏

已喜欢，[对作者说句悄悄话](javascript:;)

取消 __

#### 发送给作者

发送

最多40字，当前共字

[](javascript:;) 人赞赏

上一页 [1](javascript:;)/3 下一页

长按二维码向我转账

支持学术公益与知识传播

![赞赏二维码]()

受苹果公司新规定影响，微信 iOS 版的赞赏功能被关闭，可通过二维码转账支持公众号。

