---
title: 【新刊速递】《中国评论》期刊发表“印太战略”专题论文
date: 2021-02-26 19:55:00
author: 国政学人
tags: ['新刊速递']
---


收录于合集 #新刊速递 123个

![](/images/1195/2.jpeg)![](/images/1195/3.png)![](/images/1195/4.png)![](/images/1195/5.png)![](/images/1195/6.png)

  

**期刊简介**

  

<img src='/images/1195/7.png' width='100%' />

  

《中国评论》（The China
Review）是一份致力于大中华地区研究的英文杂志，期刊的前身是香港中文大学出版社1991年至2000年出版的年刊China
Review。2001年，香港中文大学政治与政府管理系王绍光教授将年刊改为半年刊，每年4月和10月出版，由香港中文大学出版社编辑发行。刊物主要接受社会科学和人文领域有关当代中国研究的论文、研究心得、田野报告和书评，注重呈现多学科领域的新近研究成果，鼓励跨学科研究。

  

**本期编委**

  

 **【编译】** 唐一鸣 杨朔

 **【审校】** 丁伟航

 **【排版】** 黄晨蕊

  

![](/images/1195/8.jpeg)

  

 **本期目录**

  

 **1、美国、中国和印太战略：战略竞争的兴起和回归**

The United States, China, and the Indo-Pacific Strategy: The Rise and Return
of Strategic Competition

  

 **2、美国“印太战略”与中国的回应**

The US Indo-Pacific Strategy and China's Response

  

 **3、中国在“印太战略”上的策略：一个概念，多重视角**

China's Fragmented Approach toward the Indo-Pacific Strategy: One Concept,
Many Lenses

  

 **4、解释中国对美国印太战略的对冲**

Explaining China's Hedging to the United States' Indo-Pacific Strategy

  

 **5、“利基战略”的力量以及中国对美国“印太战略”的预防性和适应性反应**

The Power of a Niche Strategy and China's Preemptive and Adaptive Response to
the US Indo-Pacific Strategy

  

 **01**

 **美国、中国和印太战略：战略竞争的兴起和回归**

 **【题目】** The United States, China, and the Indo-Pacific Strategy: The Rise
and Return of Strategic Competition

 **【作者】** 胡伟星，澳门大学社会科学学院院长。

 **【摘要】**
不论现在或将来，中国将是美国在21世纪最重要的大国竞争对手。特朗普政府采用“全政府”的方式与中国竞争，华盛顿正在采取强硬措施应对中国对美国经济利益、价值观和安全的挑战。印太地区是中美战略竞争的核心区域，印太战略是华盛顿遏制中国在印太地区崛起的核心竞争手段。这一组论文将探讨中美关系的变化因素，以及中国如何回应美国“印太战略”。

 **【原文】** China is and will remain the most important great-power rival for
the United States in the 21st century. The Trump administration has adopted a
whole-of-government approach to compete with China. Washington is taking tough
measures confronting China's challenges to the US economic interests, values,
and security. The Indo-Pacific region is a key area where US-China strategic
competition takes place. The US Indo-Pacific Strategy (IPS) is a core
competitive instrument for Washington to contain China's rising power and
influence among those countries along the Indian and Pacific Oceans. The
articles in this special section examine the changing parameters of the US-
China relationship and how Beijing responds to the US Indo-Pacific Strategy.

  

 **【编译】** 唐一鸣

 **【审校】** 杨朔

  

 **02**

 **美国“印太战略”与中国的回应**

 **【题目】** The US Indo-Pacific Strategy and China's Response

 **【作者】** 胡伟星，澳门大学社会科学学院院长；孟维瞻，复旦大学中国研究院、发展研究院助理研究员。

 **【摘要】**
中美关系定义了21世纪的地缘政治。尽管开局混乱，特朗普政府还是在第一年执政期间制定了新的国家安全战略。该战略明确地将中国定义为“挑战美国权力、影响力和利益并且试图侵蚀美国安全和繁荣”的战略竞争对手。美国首次提出“印太战略”以应对和限制中国在印太地区的正在增长的影响力。作为对华全面竞争战略的一部分，美国国务卿蓬佩奥呼吁建立新的对华“民主国家联盟”。中国政府还未对美国的印太战略及其“自由开放的印太”概念作出正式回应。十年前，当奥巴马政府推出“重返亚太”战略时，中国以一项宏伟的地缘经济计划作为回应，其目的是沿中国古代丝绸之路的海陆地带扩大经济实力。十年后，中国如何回应来自美国的新战略挑战？作者认为中国并未对美国的印太战略做出针锋相对的回应。相反，中国以一种更具有建设性、和平且非对抗性的方式应对美国的挑战。中国的目标是减轻潜在的国家安全风险，同时继续增强其在印太地区内外的国际影响力。

 **【原文】** The US-China relationship defines geopolitics in the 21st century.
Despite a messy start, the Trump administration was able to provide a new
national security strategy within the first year in office. The new US
national security strategy clearly defines China as a strategic rival that
"challenges American power, influence, and interests, attempting to erode
American security and prosperity." For the first time, the United States
outlined an Indo-Pacific strategy to compete with and contain China's rising
power and influence among those countries along the Indian and Pacific oceans.
As part of an overall competitive strategy vis-à-vis China, US Secretary of
State Mike Pompeo called for "a new alliance of democracies" against China in
the international community. The Chinese government has yet to officially
respond to the US Indo-Pacific strategy as well as the "free and open Indo-
Pacific" concept. Ten years ago, when the Obama administration rolled out the
"pivot to Asia" strategy, Beijing's answer was a grand geoeconomic plan to
expand Chinese economic power along the ancient Silk Roads on land and sea.
Ten years later, how will Beijing respond to the new strategic challenge from
Washington? In this article, the authors argue that Beijing has not taken tit-
for-tat action to respond to the US Indo-Pacific Strategy. Instead, China has
responded to the new American challenge in a more constructive, peaceful, and
nonconfrontational manner. Beijing's objective is to mitigate possible
national security risks while continuing to extend its international influence
in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond.

  

 **【编译】** 唐一鸣

 **【审校】** 杨朔

  

 **03**

 **中国在“印太战略”上的策略：一个概念，多重视角**

 **【题目】** China's Fragmented Approach toward the Indo-Pacific Strategy: One
Concept, Many Lenses

 **【作者】** 马博，南京大学中国南海研究协同创新中心专职研究员、国际法与海洋研究项目主任。

 **【摘要】**
自2017年特朗普政府批准“印太”概念并随后推出美国“印太战略”以来，中国政府、学术界和政策研究界对该战略的概念和实质保持高度关注。然而，中国官员和学者在评估这一战略的性质、目的和影响方面存在分歧，在应对政策方面也尚未达成共识。这种分裂在之前应对某些国际法问题时也曾出现过。本文认为，议题涉及的规模越大，中国政策和学术界的分裂程度就越高。关于印太战略的讨论正是这种纵横分裂的例证之一。来自不同学术背景的学者对印太战略提出了不同的评价和建议，这使目前中国的印太战略政策辩论异常活跃且深刻。

 **【原文】** Since the Trump administration endorsed the concept of Indo-Pacific
in 2017 and later rolled out a US Indo-Pacific strategy, the Chinese
government and China's academic and policy community have maintained a high
interest in understanding the strategy in terms of its conception and
substance. However, Chinese officials and scholars have been divided in
assessing the nature, purposes, and impacts of the strategy and have reached
no consensus on policy responses. This fragmentation has appeared before, as
we have seen among international law scholars on some thorny international law
issues. This article argues that the larger the scale of the issue, the higher
the degree of fragmentation is likely to be in China's policy and academic
community. The US Indo-Pacific strategy is a good example of that parallel and
vertical fragmentation. Chinese scholars, coming from different academic
backgrounds, have offered different assessments and recommendations on the
Indo-Pacific strategy, which have made the policy debate in today's China
quite vibrant and sophisticated.

  

 **【编译】** 杨朔

 **【校对】** 唐一鸣

  

 **04**

 **解释中国对美国印太战略的对冲**

 **【题目】** Explaining China's Hedging to the United States' Indo-Pacific
Strategy

 **【作者】** 叶晓迪，广东外语外贸大学国际关系学院助理教授。

 **【摘要】**
中国如何回应美国的“印太战略”，已成为决策者和学术界的一个关键问题。现有文献主要关注美国、日本、澳大利亚和印度如何和为何推行“印太”概念，“印太”如何给中国国家安全带来战略压力。然而，中国对“印太”概念的态度和战略回应在很大程度上被忽视了。本文从对冲战略的角度分析了中国的应对。文章认为，中国在应对“印太战略”遏制范围不断扩大的同时，从两个相互关联的角度实施了“对冲”战略。在应对美国的过程中，中国政府坚持不结盟原则，提升中俄战略伙伴关系，以抵御“印太战略”带来的安全压力。在应对周边国家时，中国采取了一种安抚的方式，为周边国家，特别是那些与美国有安全关系的国家，建立了一种合作激励机制。

 **【原文】** How China responds to the United States' Indo-Pacific strategy has
become a crucial question for both policymakers and academics. The existing
literature primarily focuses on how and why the United States, Japan,
Australia, and India have promoted the Indo-Pacific concept and how this
concept has imposed strategic pressure on China's national security. However,
China's changing and complex attitudes and strategic responses to the Indo-
Pacific concept have largely been overlooked. This article analyzes China's
response from the perspective of a hedging strategy. It argues that while
confronting the expanding range of containment, which is the crux of the Indo-
Pacific strategy, China has applied a hedging strategy from two interrelated
perspectives. In responding to the United States, the Chinese government
adheres to the nonalliance principle and upgrades its China-Russia strategic
partnership to resist the security pressure produced by the Indo-Pacific
strategy. In responding to peripheral countries, China has adopted a
reassurance approach to create a cooperative incentive for peripheral
countries, particularly those that have security relations with the United
States.

  

 **【编译】** 唐一鸣

 **【校对】** 丁伟航

  

 **05**

 **“利基战略”的力量以及中国对美国“印太战略”的预防性和适应性反应**

 **【题目】** The Power of a Niche Strategy and China's Preemptive and Adaptive
Response to the US Indo-Pacific Strategy

 **【作者】** 张春满，复旦大学社会科学高等研究院青年副研究员。

 **【摘要】**
特朗普政府制定了名为“印太战略”的新策略，以应对21世纪中国的挑战。虽然对美国印太战略的内容、目的及方式尚存在争议，但可以明显看出，中国已对印太战略加以重视。国际关系学者试图更好地理解中国对印太战略的回应。本文提出一种新的视角来理解中国对印太战略在战略意义上的回应，这更重要的是一种预防性的回应，作者将其称之为“利基战略”（或重点集中战略）。“利基战略”是商业市场领域广泛讨论的一种营销策略。受新兴的“利基战略”营销研究的启发，本文试图将“利基战略”在国际关系中作为一种重要的外交政策战略加以概念化，并用来理解和解释中国对印太战略的回应。亚洲基础设施投资银行(AIIB)的运转和“一带一路”倡议不断变化的方向都充分体现了中国的“利基战略”，这些可以帮助中国更好地应对印太战略的压力。然而，中国的利基战略与美国印太战略的冲突会导致战争还是和平，这仍然是一个问题。

 **【原文】** The Trump administration has fleshed out a novel approach called the
Indo-Pacific strategy to address the China challenge in the 21st century.
Although it is still debatable about the content, aims, and approaches of the
US Indo-Pacific strategy, it is crystal clear that China has taken the US
Indo-Pacific strategy seriously. Students of international relations have
attempted to better understand China's response to the US Indo-Pacific
strategy. In this article, I propose a new perspective to comprehend China's
strategic and more importantly preemptive response to the US Indo-Pacific
strategy, which I call a niche strategy. The niche strategy is a widely
discussed marketing strategy in the business and marketing communities.
Inspired by the burgeoning marketing studies on niche strategy, this article
attempts to conceptualize it in international relations as a vital foreign
policy strategy and then to apply it to understand and explain China's
strategic response to the US Indo-Pacific strategy. Exemplified and emboldened
by the operation of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) and the
changing orientations of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), China's niche
strategy can help the country better navigate the pressure from the US Indo-
Pacific strategy. However, it still remains a question whether the clash of
China's niche strategy and the US Indo-Pacific strategy will lead to war or
peace.

  

 **【编译】** 唐一鸣

 **【校对】** 丁伟航

  

**好好学习，天天“在看”**<img src='/images/1195/9.gif' width='17' height='17' />

![](/images/1195/10.png)

![]()

国政学人

支持学术公益与知识传播

![赞赏二维码]() **微信扫一扫赞赏作者** __赞赏

已喜欢，[对作者说句悄悄话](javascript:;)

取消 __

#### 发送给作者

发送

最多40字，当前共字

[](javascript:;) 人赞赏

上一页 [1](javascript:;)/3 下一页

长按二维码向我转账

支持学术公益与知识传播

![赞赏二维码]()

受苹果公司新规定影响，微信 iOS 版的赞赏功能被关闭，可通过二维码转账支持公众号。

