---
title: 【新刊速递】《冲突解决杂志》Vol.65,Issue.6,2021
date: 2021-08-06 20:30:20
author: 国政学人
tags: 
---


收录于合集

![](/images/951/2.jpeg)<img src='/images/951/3.png' width='100%' /><img
src='/images/951/4.png' width='100%' /><img src='/images/951/5.png'
width='100%' /><img src='/images/951/6.png' width='100%' />  

**期刊简介**

  
<img src='/images/951/7.png' width='100%' />  
《冲突解决杂志》（ _The Journal of Conflict Resolution_
）是一份关于人类冲突的社会科学研究和理论的跨学科期刊。除了关于国际冲突以外，也探究国内冲突、群际冲突和人际冲突。根据Journal Citation
Reports的数据，2021年该期刊的影响因子为3.530。  

 **本期编委**

  
 **【编译】** 朱晓洁 胡瑞琨 杨稚珉 聂涵琳 李梦琦 **【审校】** 朱晓洁 胡瑞琨 杨稚珉 聂涵琳 李梦琦 杨紫茵 **【排版】** 林祉欣
**【美编】** 游钜家  

 **本期目录**

  
 **1. 危机谈判中的灵活性与稳定性**Flexibility and Firmness in Crisis Bargaining  
 **2. 私人的“天空之眼”：新兴技术和侵蚀政府机密的政治后果**Private Eyes in the Sky: Emerging Technology
and the Political Consequences of Eroding Government Secrecy  
 **3. 贸易狂潮：观众成本与国际贸易**Trade Rage: Audience Costs and International Trade  
 **4. 暴力冲突中的隔离墙与战略创新**Walls and Strategic Innovation in Violent Conflict  
 **5. 你会参加战斗吗？关于刚果东部怨愤的手工采矿者的研究报告**Would You Fight? We Asked Aggrieved
Artisanal Miners in Eastern Congo+  
 **6. “坏天气朋友”：自决冲突中的暴力与第三方支持**Foulweather Friends: Violence and Third-Party
Support in Self-Determination Conflicts  
 **7. 群体间冲突中社会偏好的稳定性：实地实验室小组研究**On the Stability of Social Preferences in
Inter-Group Conflict: A Lab-in-the-Field Panel Study  

01

 **危机谈判中的灵活性与稳定性**

  
 **【题目】** Flexibility and Firmness in Crisis Bargaining **【作者】**
威斯纳·丹尼洛维奇，布法罗大学政治学系的政治学副教授；乔·克莱尔，西澳大利亚大学法学院助理教授。 **【摘要】**
本文比较了混合谈判战略对严格压迫或调解的效力。尽管混合战略可以从不同的概念角度来研究，本文聚焦的是灵活性或稳定性作为谈判的信号特性。在本文的理论和经验分析中，作者展示了稳定性与灵活性的结合导致了和平解决的结果，没有单边的让步，也没有像以牙还牙一样必须按照既定规则行事。相反，坚决的稳定性不可能如传统经典中有影响力的文本所假设的那样，让对手让步。如果有的话，当双方都选择战争时，战争极有可能发生。本文为这些期望提供了理论化的基本原理，并在对1918年到2015年期间的ICB危机数据集的经验分析中得到证实。本文的研究也指出了作为一种处于民主与和平之间的潜在因果机制，谈判过程对几个研究领域会造成相关影响。  
Our study compares the efficacy of mixed bargaining strategies to strict
coercion or accommodation. While mixed strategies can be approached from
different conceptual angles, we focus on flexible and/or firm postures as
signaling properties of bargaining. In our theory and empirical analysis, we
show that the combination of firmness with flexibility on both sides, without
necessarily scripted rules as in tit-for-tat, leads to peaceful resolution
without unilateral concessions. Its opposite, resolute firmness is unlikely to
make the opponent yield, as assumed in influential literature of the
traditional canon. If anything, war is most likely when both sides opt for it.
We provide the theoretical rationale for these expectations, which are
validated in our empirical analysis of the ICB crisis dataset for the 1918 to
2015 period. Our study also points to the bargaining process as a potential
causal mechanism between democracy and peace and therefore has relevant
implications for several research strands.  
 **【编译】** 朱晓洁 **【校对】** 杨稚珉 **【审核】** 聂涵琳  

02

 **私人的“天空之眼”：新兴技术和侵蚀政府机密的政治后果**

  
 **【题目】** Private Eyes in the Sky: Emerging Technology and the Political
Consequences of Eroding Government Secrecy **【作者】** Erik Lin-
Greenberg，麻省理工大学政治科学副教授；Theo Milonopoulos，德克萨斯大学奥斯丁分校克莱门茨国家安全中心研究员。 **【摘要】**
新兴技术削弱了政府在情报信息方面近乎垄断的地位，这对领导人及其外交政策的公众支持会产生怎样的影响？曾经属于国家政府领域的技术，如图像卫星等，现在越来越多地可供商业和私人参与者使用。因此，非政府实体现在可以决定是否公开披露曾经由国家掌控的信息。本文认为，能够使用这些技术的非政府实体可作为替代信息来源，来验证政府声明或揭示政府以前未承认的活动。本文使用原始调查实验，发现商业卫星图像可以作为改变公众舆论的信息线索，并且根据其内容减弱或加强来自政府的类似线索的影响。这些发现有助于讨论国际关系的安全问题和安全领域中新兴技术的影响等相关问题。  
How do emerging technologies that erode governments’ near-monopolies on
intelligence information affect public support for leaders and their foreign
policies? Technologies—like imagery satellites—that were once the domain of
state governments are now increasingly available to commercial and private
actors. As a result, non-government entities can now exercise the disclosure
decision, publicly divulging information whose release was once controlled by
states. We argue that non-government entities with access to these
technologies serve as alternative information sources that can verify
government claims or reveal activities governments have not previously
acknowledged. Using original survey experiments we find that commercial
satellite imagery can serve as an informational cue that shifts public
opinion, and, depending on its content, either attenuates or bolsters the
effect of similar cues from government sources. The findings advance debates
over secrecy in international relations and on the effect of emerging
technologies in the security domain.  
 **【编译】** 胡瑞琨 **【校对】** 杨稚珉 **【审核】** 聂涵琳  

03

 **贸易狂潮：观众成本与国际贸易**

  
 **【题目】** Trade Rage: Audience Costs and International Trade **【作者】** Don
Casler，哥伦比亚大学政治科学系博士；Richard Clark，哥伦比亚大学政治科学系。 **【摘要】**
政客们经常公开威胁要操纵关税，但却仅有部分能贯彻到底。从理论上看，这种行为应该会产生观众成本。因此，作者通过一个基于场景片段的调查实验来检验贸易战背景下观众成本的有效性。这些场景片段描述了一种涉及美国和一个与之存在贸易逆差的国家（中国、加拿大或其他国家）的假设情况。总统（民主党人、共和党人或其他人士）要么维持现状——虽以征收关税为威胁但最终让步，要么威胁征收关税并坚持到底。作者的研究结果突显了安全和贸易冲突在观众成本和总统批准方面的差异。虽然美国人因总统威胁提高关税而制裁总统，但他们通常支持让步。在对调查中的一个自由回答提问进行回归建模和文本分析后，作者发现其原因在于消费者对支付关税成本持谨慎态度。  
Politicians frequently issue public threats to manipulate tariffs but only
sometimes follow through. This behavior theoretically ought to generate
audience costs. We, therefore, test the validity of audience costs in trade
war settings through a vignette-based survey experiment. The vignettes
describe a hypothetical situation involving the U.S. and a second country
(China, Canada, or unspecified) with whom the U.S. has a trade deficit. The
president (Democrat, Republican, or unspecified) either maintains the status
quo, threatens to impose tariffs and backs down, or threatens to impose
tariffs and follows through. Our findings highlight differences between
security and trade conflict when it comes to audience costs and presidential
approval. While Americans sanction the president for issuing a threat to raise
tariffs, they generally support backing down. Regression modeling and text
analysis of a free response question from our surveys suggest this is because
consumers are wary of paying the costs of tariffs.  
 **【编译】** 杨稚珉 **【校对】** 聂涵琳 **【审核】** 李梦琦  

04

 **暴力冲突中的隔离墙与战略创新**

  
 **【题目】** Walls and Strategic Innovation in Violent Conflict **【作者】** Matthew
Nanes, 圣路易斯大学政治学助理教授；Trevor Bachus，圣路易斯大学政治学与法学副教授（特邀）。 **【摘要】**
各国政府修建隔离墙，以遏制移民、犯罪和恐怖主义等一系列非法活动。我们认为，虽然物理障碍有效地防止了特定非法行为的发生，但它们诱导行为者从战略上做出反应，开发新的战术，改变非法活动的性质，并导致新的威胁。在以色列安全屏障的背景下检验这一论点，我们用一个与潜在攻击威胁无关的工具变量分析了障碍渗透性的短期变化。当隔离墙更安全时，以色列发生恐怖袭击的可能性就会降低。然而，我们也观察到战略改变的证据。袭击最有可能发生在政府放松临时行动限制之后，这表明之前计划的袭击是被推迟，而非阻止。此外，当屏障更安全时，恐怖分子会选择受其影响较小的武器，并在系统不同的地点发动袭击。归根结底，隔离墙对任何挑战的影响不仅取决于它们阻止行动的程度，还取决于非法行为者的战略反应。  
Governments build walls to curtail a range of illicit activities like
immigration, crime, and terrorism. We argue that while physical barriers
effectively prevent specific unwanted behavior, they induce actors to respond
strategically and develop new tactics, changing the nature of the illicit
activity and leading to new threats. We test this argument in the context of
Israel’s security barrier. Using an instrumental variable unrelated to the
underlying threat of attack, we analyze short-term changes in the barrier’s
porousness. Terror attacks in Israel are less likely when the barrier is more
secure. However, we also observe evidence of changing strategies. Attacks are
most likely immediately after the government eases temporary restrictions on
movement, suggesting that previously planned attacks were delayed, not
prevented. Furthermore, when the barrier is more secure, terrorists select
weapons that are less affected by it and carry out attacks in systematically
different locations. Ultimately, walls’ impacts on any challenge depend not
just on how well they prevent movement but also on illicit actors’ strategic
responses.  
 **【编译】** 聂涵琳 **【校对】** 杨稚珉 **【审核】** 李梦琦  

05

 **你会参加战斗吗？关于刚果东部怨愤的手工采矿者的研究报告**

  
 **【题目】** Would You Fight? We Asked Aggrieved Artisanal Miners in Eastern
Congo **【作者】** Nik Stoop，比利时安特卫普大学发展政策研究所博士后研究员；Marijke
Verpoorten，比利时安特卫普大学发展政策研究所副教授。 **【摘要】**
为了满足不断增长的矿产资源需求，矿业公司冒险进入社会脆弱（战乱后恢复）地区进行工业采矿，而这往往会排挤手工采矿者，引起他们的不满甚至引发暴力事件。本文用个人层面的数据回答何种受害者意图使用暴力以及如何维持和平的问题。作者以刚果东部
469名即将被驱逐的手工采矿者为样本，调查了他们参与多种形式暴力的意图，并发现这种意图因采矿者遭受暴力的经历和他们对寻求社会稳定政策的态度而异。在不满情绪的影响和物质与社会刺激下，有相当一部分采矿者意图破坏矿业公司财产、袭击公司员工、使用武器或加入武装团体。本研究结果将有助于理解当地资源诅咒的微观诱因，并为矿业政策提供具体的经验教训。  
To meet the rising demand for minerals, mining companies have ventured into
fragile areas, often at the expense of artisanal miners. This has led to
grievances, and at times violence. Who among the aggrieved intends to use
violence? How can peace be maintained? This paper uses individual-level data
to address these questions. Among a sample of 469 about-to-be-evicted
artisanal miners in Eastern Congo, we inquire about the intention to engage in
several forms of violence. We identify how this intention varies with miners’
past exposure to violence and attitudes towards policies that seek social
peace. A large proportion of miners intends to destroy the company’s property,
attack its employees, use firearms, or join an armed group. These would-be-
fighters are motivated by grievances, as well as material and social
incentives. Our results contribute to understanding the micro-motivations
underpinning the local resource curse and entail concrete lessons for mining
policies.  
 **【编译】** 李梦琦 **【校对】** 聂涵琳 **【审核】** 李梦琦、杨紫茵  

06

 **“坏天气朋友”：自决冲突中的暴力与第三方支持**

  
 **【题目】** Foulweather Friends: Violence and Third Party Support in Self-
Determination Conflicts **【作者】** R. Joseph Huddleston，西顿霍尔大学外交与国际关系学院的助理教授。
**【摘要】**
本文研究了自决冲突中的暴力对双边外交政策的影响。作者认为，当暴力冲突到达较高水平，或自决组织获得领土控制，或主要力量被正式承认时，对国际稳定的一般偏好使第三方支持自决组织。在这些情况下，第三方意识到一个稳定的新现状的接近：未被承认的国家地位。持续存在的不稳定鼓励第三方采取支持这个事实国家的发展的外交政策，即使第三方没有对他们进行国家承认的意图。重要的是，作者还指出以平民为目标的行为削弱了第三方对犯罪一方的支持。作者在双边军事、外交和经济交流数据的基础上建立了这些有抱负国家的国际主权潜在变量模型，并用模型证明了上述关系。作者的模型和试验为有抱负国家如何在第三方心照不宣的支持下逐渐获得被承认资格提供了新视角。  
This paper investigates how violence in self-determination conflicts
influences bilateral foreign policy. I argue that a general preference for
international stability causes third parties to support self-determination
groups when violence reaches high levels, when they gain territorial control,
and when major powers officially recognize. In these conditions, third parties
perceive a stable new status quo to be nigh: unrecognized statehood. Ongoing
instability encourages foreign policy that encourages the development of the
de facto state, even when third parties have no intention of recognizing them
as states. Importantly, I also show that targeting civilians erodes third-
party support of the perpetrating side. I demonstrate these relationships
using a latent variable model of international sovereignty of aspiring states,
built on bilateral military, diplomatic, and economic exchange data. My model
and tests provide new insight into how aspiring state actors become
increasingly eligible for recognition through the tacit support of third-party
states。  
 **【编译】** 朱晓洁 **【校对】** 李梦琦 **【审核】** 杨稚珉  
  

07

 **群体间冲突中社会偏好的稳定性：实地实验室小组研究**

  
 **【题目】** On the Stability of Social Preferences in Inter-Group Conflict: A
Lab-in-the-Field Panel Study **【作者】** Robert Böhm，哥本哈根大学应用社会心理学与行为科学教授；Jürgen
Fleiß，卡尔·弗朗岑斯格拉茨大学商业分析与数据科学高级讲师；Robert Rybnicek，卡尔·弗朗岑斯格拉茨大学管理学副教授。 **【摘要】**
群体间冲突无处不在，然而人们对群体内外成员的社会偏好的异质性和稳定性知之甚少。为了确定群体间冲突中社会偏好的普遍性和稳定性，本研究从2016年奥地利总统大选期间的实地实验室研究中收集了具有配额代表性的数据，对群体内和群体外成员在选举前一周、后一周和三个月后的社会偏好进行评估，发现个体的群体依赖与独立的社会偏好存在相当大的异质性。本文利用各种计量经济学方法，发现了在冲突过程中较为稳定的社会偏好。然而，这些偏好也存在一些变动的迹象，特别是当冲突变得不那么突出时。群体内成员的社会偏好和特定偏好类型之间的差异会更大。本文还讨论了研究成功的理论意义，并概述了未来研究的潜在路径。  
Despite the omnipresence of inter-group conflicts, little is known about the
heterogeneity and stability of individuals’ social preferences toward in-group
and out-group members. To identify the prevalence and stability of social
preferences in inter-group conflict, we gather quota-representative,
incentivized data from a lab-in-the-field study during the heated 2016
Austrian presidential election. We assess social preferences toward in-group
and out-group members one week before, one week after, and three months after
the election. We find considerable heterogeneity in individuals’
group-(in)dependent social preferences. Utilizing various econometric
strategies, we find largely stable social preferences over the course of the
conflict. Yet, there is some indication of variation, particularly when the
conflict becomes less salient. Variation is larger in social preferences
toward in-group members and among specific preference types. We discuss the
theoretical implications of our findings and outline potential avenues for
future research.  
 **【编译】** 胡瑞琨 **【校对】** 李梦琦 **【审核】** 杨稚珉  

 **好好学习，天天“在看”**<img src='/images/951/8.gif' width='17' height='17' />

<img src='/images/951/9.png' width='100%' />

![]()

国政学人

支持学术公益与知识传播

![赞赏二维码]() **微信扫一扫赞赏作者** __赞赏

已喜欢，[对作者说句悄悄话](javascript:;)

取消 __

#### 发送给作者

发送

最多40字，当前共字

[](javascript:;) 人赞赏

上一页 [1](javascript:;)/3 下一页

长按二维码向我转账

支持学术公益与知识传播

![赞赏二维码]()

受苹果公司新规定影响，微信 iOS 版的赞赏功能被关闭，可通过二维码转账支持公众号。

