---
title: 【活动预告】”构筑人工智能的未来：政策困境与对策“研讨会
date: 2020-11-19 20:15:00
author: 
tags: 
---


收录于合集

以下文章来源于海国图智研究院 ，作者海国图智001

![](/images/1783/2.png) **海国图智研究院** .

海国图智研究院，定位于新型、独立的国际关系社会智库，诚愿以热点资讯、原创评论和深度报告等优质学术产品，服务于全球化背景下“开眼看世界”的中外读者。

**”构筑人工智能的未来：政策困境与对策“研讨活动即将举办**

  

  

由阿登纳基金会（德国）上海代表处、海国图智研究院与亚欧人工智能研究联盟联合主办的“构筑人工智能的未来：政策困境与对策”调研与研讨活动将与2020年11月26日至28日在广州举办。届时，三方邀请的相关领域专家将走访大湾区代表性科技企业，与企业家与行业协会进行座谈交流，并于27日下午在广州康莱德酒店举办研讨活动。此系列活动的主要目的在于促进人工智能的社会科学研究者了解广州人工智能企业的发展情况，比较中德两国人工智能技术与政策现状。活动主办方致力于为亚欧两地人工智能领域的企业与社会科学研究创造合作机会，包括共同寻求研究项目和扩展业务合作。

  

![](/images/1783/3.jpeg)![](/images/1783/4.jpeg)![](/images/1783/5.jpeg)

![](/images/1783/6.jpeg)

  

  

将于11月27日下午举办的研讨活动向社会公众开放，欢迎对人工智能政策研究感兴趣的学界、智库界与媒体界朋友报名参会旁听。

  

 **时间** **：**

 **2020** **年11月27日16：00-18：30** ( **北京时间** ，格林尼治标准时间+8)

2020年11月27日09：00-11：30(中欧时间，格林尼治标准时间+1)

**地点：**

广州市天河区珠江新城兴民路222号康莱德酒店四层艺廊厅I+II（线下）

ZOOM会议室直播（线上）

**主题：**

  * AI技术的二元性困境对设计者意味着什么？

  * 人工智能在伦理上的模棱两可是普遍存在的，还是会因特定的文化背景而有所不同？

  * 为了让网络空间的公民身份有所不同，人工智能应用程序的哪个维度应该优先嵌入价值观？

  * 在数字经济的AI化中，法律作为调节者和价值推动者在透明度和问责方面有什么限制？

  * 国际技术竞争如何塑造人工智能应用固有的风险和漏洞？

  
**发言专家（更新中）** **：**

  * 菲利普·斯塔布（Philipp Staab）教授，柏林洪堡大学

  * 蔡翠红教授，复旦大学

  * 科琳娜·阿贝莱（Corinna Abele），德国联邦外贸与投资署，上海

  * 罗杰·克里默斯（Rogier Creemers）教授，莱顿大学

  * 汉斯·乌兹科雷特（Hans Uszkoreit）教授，GIANCE 科技的创始人兼首席科学家

  * 哈亚·舒尔曼（Haya Shulman）教授，弗劳恩霍夫安全信息技术学院（达姆施塔特和耶路撒冷）

  * 孟天广教授，清华大学计算社会科学平台执行主任

  * 杰弗里·丁（Jeffrey Ding），牛津大学人工智能治理中心

  

 **参与方式：**  

请点击原文链接或扫描二维码填写信息报名。

本地朋友可赴现场听会；

外地朋友可线上听会。

  

  
  
  

  

  

 **主办方简介**  

  

![](/images/1783/7.png)

 **The Konrad-Adenauer-Stiftung (KAS)** is a political foundation. In Germany,
KAS offers a wide variety of civic education conferences and events. KAS
offices abroad are in charge of over 200 projects in more than 120 countries.
KAS is proud to bear the name of Konrad Adenauer. The first chancellor of the
Federal Republic of Germany’s name and principles are our guidelines, duty,
and obligation. KAS conferences and events attract people who 'have something
to say'. In Germany, KAS offers more than 2,500 events per year which attract
145,000 participants. KAS provides moral and material support to
intellectually gifted young people, not only from Germany but also from
Central and Eastern Europe and developing countries. KASstays in close contact
with our more than 10.000 alumni. The KAS offices in China aim to promote
under understandings between Chinese and German partners, promote dialogues
between China and Europe, and promote exchanges between China and Germany in
academic, economic, technological, and social fields.  
  

  

![](/images/1783/8.png)

 **Intellisia Institute** is one of the leading non-profit independent social
think tanks in China. With our high-qualified and efficient research team and
our strong resource-integration ability, we are dedicated to providing
knowledge resources for the government, enterprises, media, academia and the
public from an independent and objective research perspective, so as to help
them better "see the world with open eyes", understand the relationship
between China and the world, and to provide strategic insights and policy
solutions for foreign affairs, as well as promote the growth and development
of China's social think tanks in its cross border communication.In2019,
Intellisia institute was listed as one of the first think tanks of the
ChinaThink Tank Index (CTTI), and was ranked 5th among China's social think
tank.

  

![](/images/1783/9.png)

 **Asia-EuropeConsortium for AI Research (AECAIR)** is a platform, initiated
by partners in Asia and Europe, including KAS Shanghai Office, Intellisia
Institute in Guangzhou, Dr. Fen Jennifer Lin (City University of Hong Kong;
Greater Bay Area AI & Society Research Institute), and ProfMaximilian Mayer
(University of Nottingham Ningbo China). This platform aims tooffer a thinking
space for social science research – across the Eurasiancontinent and beyond –
in order to gather researchers, experts, andpractitioners in the expanding
field of AI aiming to channel their analysisregularly to policymakers. It aims
at fostering and stimulatinginterdisciplinary collaborations as well as public
conversations about thepotentials and limits of AI.

  

