---
title: 【新刊速递】《安全研究》(SS),Vol.30,No.4,2021|国政学人
date: 2022-02-12 20:55:00
author: 国政学人
tags: ['新刊速递']
---


收录于合集 #新刊速递 123个

![](/images/243/2.gif)

  

**期刊简介**

  

<img src='/images/243/3.png' width='100%' />

  

《安全研究》( _Security Studies_
)收录并出版具有创新性的学术稿件——无论是理论研究、实践经验分享还是两者兼而有之。安全研究包含广泛的议题，涵盖核扩散、核威慑、军民关系、战略文化、种族冲突、流行病与国家安全、民主政治、外交决策以及定性与多方法研究的发展。Journal
Citation Reports显示，其2020年的影响因子为2.464。

  

 **本期目录**

  

 **1\. 脱离议程：1945年后的规范与宣战的终结**

Off the Menu: Post-1945 Norms and the End of War Declarations

  

 **2\. 言而不行：理解外交政策争端中的中国媒体活动**

Barking Without Biting: Understanding Chinese Media Campaigns During Foreign
Policy Disputes

  

 **3\. 核胁迫，危机谈判与1969年中苏边境冲突**

Nuclear Coercion, Crisis Bargaining, and The Sino-Soviet Border Conflict of
1969

  

 **4\. 美国战略与私营海事安全的兴起**

US Strategy and the Rise of Private Maritime Security

  

 **5\. 战时秩序的遗产：北爱尔兰的处罚袭击和社会控制**

Legacies of Wartime Order: Punishment Attacks and Social Control in Northern
Ireland

  

01

 **脱离议程：1945年后的规范与宣战的终结**

  

 **题目：** Off the Menu: Post-1945 Norms and the End of War Declarations

 **作者：** Katherine Irajpanah，哈佛大学政府系博士研究生；Kenneth A Schultz，斯坦福大学政治科学系教授

 **摘要：**
为何国家不再宣战？塔尼莎·法扎尔认为国家停止宣战是为了规避日益增长的遵守国际人道法的代价。相反，文章认为1945年后在规范和法律领域以寻求禁止战争为目标的发展改变了宣战的意义。这种改变最好的结果是无关痛痒，而最差的结果则是起到反作用。尽管战争并未终结，其被视为极端目标的信号的特征可能使得管理冲突和联盟建设复杂化。此外，联合国系统为各国提供了合法化军事行动的更好途径，尤其是通过自卫主张的方式。文章通过重新评估宣战的经验模式、分析根据联合国宪章第51条提出的自卫主张以及1945年后不宣而战的案例研究来支持这一论点。

  

Why do states no longer declare war? In a provocative analysis, Tanisha M.
Fazal argues that states stopped declaring war to evade the costs of complying
with the growing body of international humanitarian laws. We argue instead
that post-1945 normative and legal developments that sought to prohibit war
changed the meaning of war declarations in a way that made them at best
irrelevant and at worst counterproductive. Although war-making did not end, a
once routine feature of warfare came to be seen as a signal of extreme aims
that could complicate escalation management and coalition building. Moreover,
the United Nations (UN) system provided more desirable ways for states to
justify military operations, particularly through self-defense claims. We
support this argument through a reassessment of the empirical pattern of war
declarations, an analysis of self-defense claims made under Article 51 of the
UN Charter, and case studies of undeclared wars in the post-1945 period.

  

02

 **言而不行：理解外交政策争端中的中国媒体活动**

  

 **题目：** Barking Without Biting: Understanding Chinese Media Campaigns During
Foreign Policy Disputes

 **作者：** Frances Yaping Wang，新加坡管理大学政治科学系副教授

 **摘要：**
在外交政策争端期间，是什么激励了中国媒体的行动，它们是如何进行的？“影响攻势”通常被认为与国际安全高度相关，但其仍未得到充分研究。文章提出并检验了将这些媒体活动解释为在偏离国家首选的外交政策时，利用媒体的动员或安抚效应，采取战略行动来协调国内公众舆论的理论。不同的媒体效应分别对应两种媒体活动——动员活动与安抚活动。安抚活动尤为重要，它表明强硬言论反而可能起到安抚公众的作用，因此采取这一战略意味着温和的外交政策意图。对21场中国外交危机的一致性测试，以及对2016年中菲仲裁事件的过程追踪，为这一理论提供了强有力的支持并证明了安抚活动如何发挥作用及其与动员活动有何区别。

  

What motivates Chinese media campaigns during foreign policy disputes, and how
are they carried out? “Influence campaigns” are often recognized as highly
pertinent to international security, yet they remain understudied. This
article develops and tests a theory that explains these media campaigns as
strategic actions to align domestic public opinion when it deviates from the
state’s preferred foreign policy, exploiting the media’s mobilization or
pacification effect. These divergent media effects correspond to two types of
media campaigns, respectively—mobilization campaigns and pacification
campaigns. The pacification campaigns are particularly important because they
indicate that hawkish rhetoric may counterintuitively pacify the public, and
hence its adoption implies a moderate foreign policy intent. A medium-N
congruence test of 21 Chinese diplomatic crises and process tracing of the
2016 Sino-Philippines arbitration case offer strong support for the theory and
demonstrate how a pacification campaign works and how it differs from a
mobilization campaign.

  

03

 **核胁迫、危机谈判与1969年中苏边境冲突**

  

 **题目:** Nuclear Coercion, Crisis Bargaining, and The Sino-Soviet Border
Conflict of 1969

 **作者** **:** Hyun-Binn Cho，新泽西大学政治科学系副教授

 **摘要:**
关于美国总统唐纳德·特朗普的施压运动迫使朝鲜重返谈判桌的论调引发了核大国之间有关胁迫的辩论。本文利用罗马尼亚档案文件和中文资料，通过研究1969年中苏边界危机，对苏联的核威胁迫使中国重返谈判桌的主张提出了质疑。此外，它还解释了中国在边境谈判恢复时令人费解的不妥协态度。虽然中国同意回到谈判桌，但同样对于苏联的核攻击有所忌惮。然而尽管这种情绪存在，中国几十年来一直抵制与苏联达成边境协议。为什么对苏联核袭击的忌惮并不能迫使中国接受边境协议？通过深入了解1969年核危机，本文为核强制成功的条件提供了新的思路。

  

The claim that President Donald Trump’s “fire and fury” pressure campaign
coerced North Korea to return to the bargaining table has renewed debates
about coercion among nuclear powers. This article contributes to these debates
by refining our understanding of the 1969 Sino-Soviet border crisis. Drawing
on Romanian archival documents and Chinese-language sources, this article
challenges the assertion that Soviet nuclear threats coerced the Chinese to
return to the bargaining table. Further, it explains China’s otherwise
puzzling intransigence when border negotiations resumed. After China’s leaders
agreed to return to the bargaining table, they became fearful of a Soviet
nuclear attack and fled Beijing; despite this fear, however, the Chinese
resisted a border deal for decades. Why did the fear of a Soviet nuclear
attack fail to compel the Chinese to accept a border deal? By improving our
understanding of the 1969 crisis, this article sheds new light on the
conditions under which nuclear compellence succeeds.

  

04

 **美国战略与私营海事安全的兴起**

  

 **题目：** US Strategy and the Rise of Private Maritime Security

 **作者：** Jan Stockbruegger，布朗大学政治科学系博士研究生

 **摘要：**
是什么解释了海上私营军事安保公司的兴起？它们与陆上私营军事安保公司有何区别？文章认为，私营军事安保公司已经成为海上安全的保障者。然而它们并非仅仅受雇于国家，而是由海事公司雇用。美国及其盟军部队并不保证商船的日常安全，因此船主依靠私营军事安保公司和战争与海盗保险来确保船只在危险水域的运行。然而，美国在营造私营军事安保公司运作环境中发挥重要作用。本文认为海上秩序不是取决于美国的硬海军力量，而是其在全球治理中的领导地位与制定海洋规范和规则的能力。文章同样指出，私营军事安保公司在得到国家当局的监管和支持时可以帮助维护海洋安全。本文通过研究两伊战争期间、索马里海盗兴起期间和2019年波斯湾袭击之后美国促进私人安全的案例来说明这一逻辑。

  

What explains the rise of maritime private military security companies
(PMSCs)? How do they differ from land-based PMSCs? I argue that PMSCs have
become major providers of security at sea. Yet maritime PMSCs are not hired by
states but by the maritime industry. The United States and allied forces do
not guarantee merchant vessels’ day-to-day security. Consequently, shipowners
rely on PMSCs and war and piracy insurance to operate their vessels in
dangerous waters. The United States, however, plays a vital role in regulating
PMSCs and creating environments in which PMSCs can operate effectively. This
paper shows that order at sea depends not on the United States’ “hard” naval
power but on its leadership in global governance and on its ability to create
rules and norms for maritime behavior. It also shows that PMSCs can help
secure the oceans if regulated and supported by state authorities. I
illustrate this logic through three case studies of how the United States has
facilitated private security efforts: during the Iran–Iraq Tanker War, in
piracy-prone shipping lanes off Somalia, and in the Persian Gulf following
attacks there in 2019.

  

05

 **战时秩序的遗产：北爱尔兰的处罚袭击和社会控制**

  

 **题目：** Legacies of Wartime Order: Punishment Attacks and Social Control in
Northern Ireland

 **作者：** Kit Rickard，伦敦大学学院政治科学系博士研究生；Kristin M. Bakke，伦敦大学学院政治科学系教授

 **摘要：**
为维持冲突期间的社会秩序，许多武装团体设立了非正式机构，这些非正式机构的残余对冲突后的政府试图重建可信的国家权威构成关键挑战。在贝尔法斯特协议签署20余年后，北爱尔兰持续存在的准军事团体的非正式“司法”系统让人们能够深入了解战时秩序的遗产。文章认为武装行动者能够从战时制度在冲突结束很长时间后的社会控制中受益，这是因为武装行动者和平民均对这些制度产生依赖。基于对战时制度、刑事治理和战后国家建设的研究，文章利用历史著作、对利益相关者的访谈、处罚袭击数据和调查数据，研究了骚乱（1968-98）期间产生的非正式“司法”系统是如何在战后边缘化的。

  

Many armed groups create informal institutions to maintain social order during
conflict. The remnants of these informal institutions form a key challenge for
governments in postconflict societies in their attempts to reestablish
themselves as credible state authorities. The persistence of paramilitary
groups’ informal “justice” systems in the form of so-called punishment attacks
in Northern Ireland, more than twenty years on from the Good Friday Agreement,
offers insights into the legacy of wartime institutions. We argue that armed
actors can benefit from the social control wartime institutions grant them
long after the conflict ends and both armed actors and civilians are
socialized into relying on these institutions. Building on research on wartime
institutions, criminal governance, and postwar state-building, we examine how
the informal “justice” systems created during the Troubles (1968–98) remain at
the fringes of postwar society, drawing on historical works, interviews with
stakeholders, geocoded data on “punishment attacks,” and survey data.

  

编译 | 池佳曈

审校 | 秦子宁 朱文菡

排版 | 陆霜滢 彭雯昕

![](/images/243/4.gif)

![]()

国政学人

支持学术公益与知识传播

![赞赏二维码]() **微信扫一扫赞赏作者** __赞赏

已喜欢，[对作者说句悄悄话](javascript:;)

取消 __

#### 发送给作者

发送

最多40字，当前共字

[](javascript:;) 人赞赏

上一页 [1](javascript:;)/3 下一页

长按二维码向我转账

支持学术公益与知识传播

![赞赏二维码]()

受苹果公司新规定影响，微信 iOS 版的赞赏功能被关闭，可通过二维码转账支持公众号。

