---
title: 【新刊速递】《政治地理学》PoliticalGeography,Vol.85,No.2,2021.
date: 2021-03-10 19:55:00
author: 国政学人
tags: ['新刊速递']
---


收录于合集 #新刊速递 123个

![](/images/1180/2.jpeg)<img src='/images/1180/3.png' width='100%' /><img
src='/images/1180/4.png' width='100%' /><img src='/images/1180/5.png'
width='100%' /><img src='/images/1180/6.png' width='100%' />

  

**期刊简介**

  

<img src='/images/1180/7.jpeg' width='100%' />

  

Political
Geography《政治地理学》汇集了该领域的核心文章，旨在促进国际关系、政治科学和其他相关领域的跨学科辩论。2020年该期刊影响因子为3.043。

  

 **本期编委**

  

 **【编译】** 唐一鸣 阮镇炜 缪高意 徐一君 杨朔

 **【审核】** 张鸿儒 唐一鸣 孙唯一 阮镇炜 池佳曈

**【校对】** 徐一君 黎开朗 晋玉 阮镇炜 朱文菡

 **【排版】** 毛雅欣

 **【美编】** 李九阳

  

![](/images/1180/8.jpeg)

  

 **本期目录**

  

 **1\. 政治和地方政治：英格兰的住房、工党和地方政权**

The place of politics and the politics of place: Housing, the Labour Party and
the local state in England

  

 **2.** **暴力发生的地点很重要：历史暴力的地缘政治框定以及集体责任的评估**

Where the violence happened matters. Geopolitical framing and assessments of
collective responsibility for historical violence

  

 **3.** **澳大利亚资本主义的空间：在《未知的工业犯人》中用“空间”创造“场所”**

The spaces of Australian capitalism: Making “place” out of “space” in The
Unknown Industrial Prisoner

  

 **4\. 非** **殖民化的地缘政治：非洲葡语区的次等外交（1961-1974）**

Geopolitics of decolonisation: The subaltern diplomacies of Lusophone Africa
(1961–1974)

  

 **01**

 **政治和地方政治：英格兰的住房、工党和地方政权**

 **【题目】** The place of politics and the politics of place: Housing, the Labour
Party and the local state in England

 **【作者】** Emma Ormerod，纽卡斯尔大学城市与区域发展研究中心讲师。

 **【摘要】**
本文认为，地理研究需要更加重视政党及其与地方治理的关系。在回顾并更新地方政权的概念后，文章通过分析地方社会空间和政治关系，揭示了地方治理中易被忽略的政治权力及其对地方民主的影响。本文选取英格兰东北部盖茨黑德某一社区的长期房屋重建作为具体案例，从住房行动主义（housing
activism）视角考虑了地方工党与地方政府之间以及两者内部的社会和政治关系。通过在决策、归属权、代表权和合法性方面的斗争，当地愈发质疑工党在英国去工业化地区所拥有的成熟的权力结构的代表性。在冷漠、愤世嫉俗、缺乏期望和代表性以及反抗建制的民粹主义政党日益被视为西方成熟民主体制的潜在政治危机的全球政治趋势下，对地方层面的相关研究至关重要。

 **【原文】** This paper argues that geographical research needs to pay greater
attention to political parties and their relationship to local governing. In
returning to, and updating the concept of the local state, analysis of local
socio-spatial and political relations reveals the quieter registers of
political power in local governing, and in turn what this means for the
condition of local democracy. The long-term housing regeneration of a
neighbourhood in Gateshead, North East England is used here as an optic to do
just that. Through moments of housing activism, the social and political
relations between and within a local Labour Party and local state are
considered. A local manifestation of a growing trend that questions the
representation of mature structures of power that the Labour Party holds in
deindustrialised areas of the UK is considered through struggles over
decision-making, belonging, representation and legitimacy. Such accounts of
the local scale are critical in relation to global political trends; where
apathy, cynicism, lack of expectation and representation and insurgent
populist parties are increasingly framed as potential political crises of
mature western democracies.

  

 **【编译】** 唐一鸣

 **【校对】** 张鸿儒

 **【审核】** 徐一君

  

 **02**

 **暴力发生的地点很重要：历史暴力的地缘政治框定以及集体责任的评估**

 **【题目】** Where the violence happened matters. Geopolitical framing and
assessments of collective responsibility for historical violence

 **【作者】** Lucas B. Mazur，波兰雅盖隆大学（Jagiellonian University）助理教授。

 **【摘要】**
大规模暴力总是发生在某个特定的地缘政治环境中，如何理解该环境会影响对集体责任的认知。随着国际边界的不断改变（经常是由战争所带来的），在一个地缘政治实体内发生的事件可以被认为是在另一个地缘政治实体中发生的。这种地缘政治框定对集体责任判断的影响仍未被充分研究。本文的两项研究剖析了地缘政治框定如何导致对历史上大规模暴力的集体责任的评估的变化。通过描述某个特定地缘政治实体（即某个国家）内的历史暴力，那个国家则被认为对该暴力的发生负有更多责任。作者把这些研究设定在德国所占领的波兰以及英国所占领的印度次大陆这两个地缘政治环境内。本文也讨论了这些研究对历史教学、对历史受害者的纪念以及对更广泛理解集体责任评估和地缘政治框定所产生的影响。

 **【原文】** Mass violence always takes place in a particular geopolitical
context, and how that context is understood influences perceptions of
collective responsibility. As international borders shift, often in the wake
of war, events that occurred within one geopolitical entity can be understood
has having taken place in another. The influence of such geopolitical framing
on judgments of collective responsibility remains understudied. Two studies
examine how geopolitical frames lead to shifting assessments of collective
responsibility for historical mass violence. By depicting historical violence
within a particular geopolitical entity (e.g., a country), that entity was
perceived as being more responsible for the violence. The studies are set
within the contexts of German-occupied Poland and the British occupation of
the Indian subcontinent. The ramifications of these findings are discussed for
the teaching of history, the commemoration of historical victimhood, and for
our understanding of assessments of collective responsibility and geopolitical
framing more broadly.

  

 **【编译】** 阮镇炜

 **【校对】** 唐一鸣

 **【审核】** 黎开朗

  

 **03**

 **澳大利亚资本主义的空间：在《未知的工业犯人》中用“空间”创造“场所”**

 **【题目】** The spaces of Australian capitalism: Making “place” out of “space”
in The Unknown Industrial Prisoner

 **【作者】** Brett Heino，悉尼科技大学法学院讲师。

 **【摘要】**
激进的地理学家强调阶级关系在社会空间生产中的中心地位。这些文献特别区分了全球资本同质化的“抽象空间”和有意义的、特定的社会“场所”。“空间”和“场所”间的张力以空间形式表现出来，创造资本主义生态。（针对）澳大利亚的，尤其是二战后长期繁荣期内的，空间和场所的政治经济概念普遍尚未得到充分探讨。本文通过大卫·爱尔兰的获奖小说《未知的工业犯人》探讨这个时代的空间性。本文立足于文学地理学的概念——文学“知晓”其所诞生的社会中有关空间的东西，认为爱尔兰以一种特别生动和有力的方式描绘和处理着澳大利亚资本主义空间性中的空间和场所的辩证关系，这种关系既相互矛盾又相互交织。文章最终得出结论，虽然资本的抽象空间力量占主导地位，但通过明确的场所创造空间项目，工人可以试图强加他们的政治经济空间形式。

 **【原文】** Radical geographers have emphasised the centrality of class
relations to the production of social space. In particular, this literature
makes the distinction between the homogenising “abstract space” of global
capital and meaningful, specific social “places.” The tension between the two
expresses itself in spatial forms, creating the landscapes of capitalism. This
political-economic conception of space and place is generally under-explored
in the Australian context, particularly regarding the highly important post-
World War II Long Boom period. This article interrogates the spatiality of
this epoch through David Ireland’s award-winning novel The Unknown Industrial
Prisoner. Rooted in the notion of literary geography, which argues that
literature “knows” things about the space of the society into which it is
born, the article argues that Ireland portrays and handles in a particularly
vivid and powerful way the dialectical articulations, simultaneously
contradictory and intertwined, of space and place in the spatiality of
Australian capitalism. Whilst he ultimately concludes that the powers of
capital’s abstract space dominate, he nevertheless demonstrates that through
explicitly spatial projects of place-making, workers can attempt to impose
their own political economy on the spatial form.

  

 **【编译】** 缪高意

 **【审核】** 孙唯一

 **【校对】** 晋玉

  

 **04**

 **非殖民化的地缘政治：非洲葡语区的次等外交（1961-1974）**

 **【题目】** Geopolitics of decolonisation: The subaltern diplomacies of
Lusophone Africa (1961–1974)

 **【作者】** Federico Ferretti，都柏林大学地理学院副教授。

 **【摘要】** 本文以多元语言档案为基础，通过地缘政治视角，探讨非洲葡语区争取独立的某些非洲知识分子的全球参与。本文展示了政治领导人（例如Amílcar
Cabral，Mário Pinto de Andrade，Agostinho Neto，Eduardo Mondlane和Marcelino dos
Santos）部署的次级外交受到来自不同层次的其他学者、活动家和政治家（从基层运动到国家领导人和国际组织）跨越冷战集团与“第一”、“第二”、“第三”世界领域之间分歧的国际支持。文章认为，这些努力打乱了主流的发展叙事和以欧洲为中心的同化思想，部分原因在于其对教育的强调，以及次要历史和地理因素的产生，这对所谓的“葡萄牙非洲”新的非殖民化国家的建设起到重要作用。在20世纪60年代和70年代初，这些知识分子将文化、公共传播和跨国网络作为武器，取得了与他们的军人在战场上相当的成就。此外，这些故事证实了该档案对于追踪世界公民、多语言和侨民网络及其空间性的重要性，以及从盎格鲁或西方为中心以外的视角进行批判性地缘政治研究的重要性，从而实现非殖民化。

 **【原文】** This paper addresses the global engagement of certain African
intellectuals who strove for the independence of Lusophone Africa. It does so
using geopolitical lenses based on new and multilingual archives. Extending
current scholarship on subaltern geopolitics, cultures of decolonisation, and
critical development studies, I show the performance of the subaltern
diplomacies deployed by political leaders such as Amílcar Cabral, Mário Pinto
de Andrade, Agostinho Neto, Eduardo Mondlane, and Marcelino dos Santos in
capturing international sympathy for their cause from other scholars,
activists, and politicians at different levels (from grassroots movements to
state leaders and international organisations) across the divides between Cold
War blocs and the fields of the ‘First’, ‘Second’, and ‘Third World’. I argue
that these endeavours disrupted mainstream narratives of development and Euro-
centred ideas of assimilation, partly due to their emphasis on education and
the production of subaltern histories and geographies that were instrumental
to the national construction of new decolonised countries from so-called
‘Portuguese Africa’. In the 1960s and early 1970s, these intellectuals used
the weapons of culture, public communication, and transnational networking as
devices that were as important as the accomplishments of their fellow
guerrilla fighters in the battlefield. Additionally, these stories confirm the
importance of the archive for tracing cosmopolite, multilingual, and diasporic
networks and their spatiality, as well as for doing critical geopolitics from
perspectives other than Anglo- or Western-centred ones, thus decolonising
geography.

  

 **【编译】** 杨朔

 **【校对】** 池佳曈

 **【审核】** 朱文菡

  

**好好学习，天天“在看”**<img src='/images/1180/9.gif' width='17' height='17' />

<img src='/images/1180/10.png' width='100%' />

![]()

国政学人

支持学术公益与知识传播

![赞赏二维码]() **微信扫一扫赞赏作者** __赞赏

已喜欢，[对作者说句悄悄话](javascript:;)

取消 __

#### 发送给作者

发送

最多40字，当前共字

[](javascript:;) 人赞赏

上一页 [1](javascript:;)/3 下一页

长按二维码向我转账

支持学术公益与知识传播

![赞赏二维码]()

受苹果公司新规定影响，微信 iOS 版的赞赏功能被关闭，可通过二维码转账支持公众号。

