---
title: 【新刊速递】《世界政治》（WP），Vol.74,No.1,2022|国政学人
date: 2022-04-02 20:44:39
author: 
tags: ['新刊速递']
---


收录于合集 #新刊速递 123个

![](/images/134/2.gif)

  

**期刊简介**

  

<img src='/images/134/3.png' width='100%' />

  

《世界政治》(World Politics) 于1948年创刊，是国际知名的政治学季刊，内容World
Politics对学者的贡献开放，内容包括对文献做出理论和实证贡献的研究文章、以及与国际关系和比较政治问题相关的评论文章。该杂志不发表有关时事、政策文章或新闻性质的叙述的文章。2020年该期刊的影响因子为3.444，在95种国际关系类期刊中排名18；在182中政治科学期刊中排名44。

  

 **本期目录**

  

 **1\. 反暴力立法的表述性权力：墨西哥针对妇女暴力问题的社会规范变迁**

Expressive Power of Anti-Violence Legislation: Changes in Social Norms on
Violence Against Women in Mexico

  

 **2\. 被收买的政治掮客：超越侍从主义理论的弱势政党选举“指导手册”**

Buying Brokers: Electoral Handouts beyond Clientelism in a Weak-Party State

  

 **3\. 政府政策，选民新联合与政党体系下族群因素的兴起**

Government Policies, New Voter Coalitions, and the Emergence of Ethnic
Dimension in Party Systems

  

 **4\. 控制、胁迫和吸纳：内战胜利后叛军如何施政**

Control, Coercion, and Cooptation：How Rebels Govern after Winning Civil War

  

01

 **反暴力立法的表述性权力：墨西哥针对妇女暴力问题的社会规范变迁**

  

 **题目：** Expressive Power of Anti-Violence Legislation: Changes in Social
Norms on Violence Against Women in Mexico

 **作者：** Mala Htun，新墨西哥大学政治学系教授；Francesca R. Jensenius，奥斯陆大学政治学系教授。

 **摘要：**
相比于反暴力侵害妇女法案的理据，我们对这些法律在多大程度上以及以何种方式影响社会知之甚少。本文作者认为，即使是执行不力的法律也能促进积极的社会变革。她们将反暴力侵害妇女立法的表述性权力理论化，并就当前暴力侵害妇女问题的趋势和反暴力侵害妇女法案影响社会规范的方式作了谨慎乐观的评估。本文以墨西哥与反暴力侵害妇女相关的重大法律变革时段为重心，分析全国家庭关系动态调查（ENDIREH）的四个波次。该调查包括对数千名墨西哥妇女的详细采访，本文以此探索有关暴力行为、态度的演进趋势。作者发现，在此期间，遭受亲密伴侣虐待的妇女比例下降，纵容暴力的态度发生转变，暴力案件的报告率上升，大多数妇女增进对保护其权利的立法的了解。这些变化符合作者对反暴力立法的表述性权力的预期。

  

We know more about why laws on violence against women ( **VAW** ) were adopted
than about how much and in what ways these laws affect society. The authors
argue that even weakly enforced laws can contribute to positive social change.
They theorize the expressive power of **VAW** legislation, and present
evidence for a cautiously optimistic assessment of current trends on violence
against women and the ways that **VAW** laws affect social norms. Focusing on
a time of major legal change related to **VAW** in Mexico, this article
explores trends in behavior and attitudes related to violence by analyzing
four waves of the National Survey on the Dynamics of Household Relations (
**ENDIREH** ), which include detailed interviews with thousands of Mexican
women. The authors find that over this period, the share of women experiencing
intimate-partner abuse declined, attitudes condoning violence shifted,
reporting rates rose, and most women learned about legislation to protect
their rights. These changes are consistent with the authors’ expectations
about the expressive power of anti-violence legislation.

  

02

 **被收买的政治掮客：超越侍从主义理论的弱势政党选举“指导手册”**

  

 **题目：** Buying Brokers: Electoral Handouts beyond Clientelism in a Weak-Party
State

 **作者：** Allen Hicken，密歇根大学政治学系教授；Edward
Aspinall，澳大利亚国立大学亚太事务学院政治与社会变革系教授；Meredith L.
Weiss，纽约州立大学奥尔巴尼分校政治学系教授；Burhanuddin Muhtadi，雅加达国立伊斯兰大学社会和政治学院高级讲师。

 **摘要：**
侍从主义研究往往假定强势政党以物质利益换取选举支持。候选人所在政党通过加强金钱贿选，使政治掮客能够识别关键投票群体，以此更有针对性地进行贿选。金钱能够支撑并维持政党选战，然而选举则围着候选人转，而非围着政党转。那么候选人是如何通过金钱“指导”选民投票的呢？作者分析了印度尼西亚选举期间，候选人针对选民分发资金进行贿选的情况。利用对选民及政治掮客的调查数据、候选人资金分发名单和对焦点团体的讨论等各种数据，作者发现存在大量的候选人选举资金支出，但几乎没有证据表明是选举人收买选民。相反，候选人收买的是政治掮客。由于选民的政治忠诚难以长期维续，又无法依靠政党名声，候选人因此转向了政治掮客。候选人寻求利用具有广泛社会网络的政治掮客，建立自身政治信誉，这些掮客通过象征性支付（token
payment）的方式维持候选人“地盘”的选票。作者没有发现对选民或政治掮客行为存在监督的证据，因此与本文认为政治掮客的象征性支付是不附带条件的这一论点一致。

  

Studies of electoral clientelism—the contingent exchange of material benefits
for electoral support—frequently presume the presence of strong parties.
Parties facilitate monitoring and enforcement of vote buying and allow brokers
to identify core voters for turnout buying. Where money fuels campaigns but
elections center around candidates, not parties, how do candidates pitch
electoral handouts? The authors analyze candidates’ distribution of cash
during an Indonesian election. Drawing upon varied data, including surveys of
voters and brokers, candidates’ cash-distribution lists, and focus-group
discussions, they find heavy spending but little evidence of vote buying or
turnout buying. Instead, candidates buy brokers. With little loyalty or party
brand to draw on, candidates seek to establish credibility with well-networked
brokers, who then protect their turf with token payments for their own
presumed bloc of voters. The authors find little evidence of monitoring of
either voter or broker behavior, which is consistent with their argument that
these payments are noncontingent.

  

03

 **政府政策，选民新联合与政党体系下族群因素的兴起**

  

 **题目：** Government Policies, New Voter Coalitions, and the Emergence of
Ethnic Dimension in Party Systems

 **作者：** Maayan Mor，西班牙巴塞罗那大学“制度与政治经济学研究小组”博士后研究员。

 **摘要：**
传统族群政治理论认为，在具有族群多样性的地区，政治活动家会建立族群政党。但实证研究发现，地区族群多样性却是影响该地能否成功建立族群政党的一个弱自变量。那么族群特征在什么时候成为影响政党竞争的主导因素呢？根据以往学者的解释，政党体系中族群因素的出现是制度特征、群众组织性和精英倡议的结果。但是，这些因素也可以是选民群体以族群为界联合的产物。对此，作者提出一个新理论：当政府政策因不同的族群认同而造成民众的不满情绪，而选民寻求在议会中建立针对这一政策的反对派团体时，族群裂隙就会形成。该理论用于对如下罕见案例的检验：1848年至1874年期间，普鲁士当局针对境内天主教徒实施一系列政策而造成后者的不满，但这种不满情绪并不是由于原有的政策，或者由那些鼓动族群竞争的政治活动家造成的。作者运用过程追踪、个案比较和选举结果的统计分析，展示了无论政治活动家是否在鼓动族群竞争，天主教选民会在对政策感到不满时联合投票反对；相反，若天主教选民对当局政策无感时，天主教选民联合因而崩解。

  

Conventional theories of ethnic politics argue that political entrepreneurs
form ethnic parties where there is ethnic diversity. Yet empirical research
finds that diversity is a weak predictor for the success of ethnic parties.
When does ethnicity become a major element of party competition? Scholars have
explained the emergence of an ethnic dimension in party systems as the result
of institutions, mass organizations, and elite initiatives. But these factors
can evolve in response to an emerging ethnic coalition of voters. The author
advances a new theory: ethnic cleavages emerge when voters seek to form a
parliamentary opposition to government policies that create grievances along
ethnic identities. The theory is tested on rare cases of government policies
in Prussia between 1848 and 1874 that aggrieved Catholics but were not based
on existing policies or initiated by entrepreneurs to encourage ethnic
competition. Using process tracing, case comparisons, and statistical analysis
of electoral returns, the author shows that Catholics voted together when
aggrieved by policies, regardless of the actions of political entrepreneurs.
In contrast, when policies were neutral to Catholics, the Catholic party
dissolved.

  

04

 **控制、胁迫和吸纳：内战胜利后叛军如何施政**  

  

 **题目：** Control, Coercion, and Cooptation：How Rebels Govern after Winning
Civil War

 **作者：** Shelley X. Liu，加州大学伯克利分校戈德曼公共政策学院助理教授。

 **摘要：**
本文研究了叛军在赢得内战后如何治理。在战争期间，叛军和曾经当权的政府都与平民有着密切的联系，以期加强治理和建立统治。为了在战后巩固权力，新的叛军政府在战时根据地进行政治控制，在前政府控制区采取胁迫手段，在关系薄弱的未控制地区以政治吸纳的方式，部署忠诚的官僚进行监督。这些策略有助于解释战后国家各级地区的发展差异。作者利用津巴布韦大规模教育改革的证据进行双重差分识别，分析了津巴布韦解放战争（1972-1979）及其战后政治（1980-1987）。定量结果显示，战前叛军未控制地区的发展速度最快，而在前政府控制区发展速度最慢。对档案和访谈数据的定性分析厘清了这一理论的逻辑。本文结果加深了对于冲突如何过渡到和平的理解，并提出了关于战时经历如何影响战后政治的重要见解。

  

This article examines how rebels govern after winning a civil war. During war,
both sides—rebels and their rivals—form ties with civilians to facilitate
governance and to establish control. To consolidate power after war, the new
rebel government engages in control through its ties in its wartime
strongholds, through coercion in rival strongholds where rivals retain ties,
and through cooptation by deploying loyal bureaucrats to oversee development
in unsecured terrain where its ties are weak. These strategies help to explain
subnational differences in postwar development. The author analyzes Zimbabwe's
Liberation War (1972-1979) and its postwar politics (1980-1987) using a
difference-in-differences identification strategy that leverages large-scale
education reforms. Quantitative results show that development increased most
quickly in unsecured terrain and least quickly in rival strongholds.
Qualitative evidence from archival and interview data confirms the theorized
logic. The findings deepen understanding of transitions from conflict to peace
and offer important insights about how wartime experiences affect postwar
politics.

  

编译 | 陈想 赖永祯 董黛 杨佳霖

审校 | 曾庆鸣 施榕

排版 | 王慧瑜 梁羽

文章观点不代表本平台观点，本平台评译分享的文章均出于专业学习之用, 不以任何盈利为目的，内容主要呈现对原文的介绍，原文内容请通过各高校购买的数据库自行下载。

![](/images/134/4.gif)

