---
title: 【新刊速递】《国际研究评论》Vol.47,No.3,2021
date: 2021-08-24 20:49:14
author: 国政学人
tags: ['新刊速递']
---


收录于合集 #新刊速递 123个

![](/images/611/2.gif)

  

**期刊简介**

  

<img src='/images/611/3.png' width='100%' />

  

《国际研究评论》（ _Review of International Studies_
）是由剑桥大学出版社代表英国国际研究协会出版且同行评审的国际关系学术期刊，其前身为 _British Journal of International
Studies_ (1975 - 1980)
。该期刊致力于反映全球政治的性质变化和新兴的政治挑战，旨在为国际社会搭建一个可供辩论的平台用以讨论当下紧迫的全球议题。根据Journal Citation
Report显示，2020年该期刊的影响因子为2.73。  

  

 **本期编委**

 **编译** ：丁伟航 池佳曈 孟晓宇

 **校审** ：缪高意 朱忻博

 **排版** ：余姣

 **美编** ：方引弓

  

 **本期目录**

  

 **1\. 战后国际思想中的极右主义、现实主义和保守主义政治**  

The radical Right, realism, and the politics of conservatism in postwar
international thought

  

 **2\. 核武器、灭绝与人类世：再观乔纳森·谢尔**

Nuclear weapons, extinction, and the Anthropocene: Reappraising Jonathan
Schell

  

 **3\. 再评国际关系中国学派：一个后殖民视角**

Reappraising the Chinese School of International Relations: A postcolonial
perspective

  

 **4\. 同行评议和遵守国际反腐败规范：经合组织贿赂问题工作组的启示**

Peer review and compliance with international anti-corruption norms: Insights
from the OECD Working Group on Bribery

  

 **5\. 官僚权力的核心：解读国际官僚机构的专家权威**

The heart of bureaucratic power: Explaining international bureaucracies’
expert authority

  

 **6\. 制度复杂性下的合法性：绘制利益相关者对合法制度的看法及其在全球可再生能源治理中的合法性来源**

Legitimacy under institutional complexity: Mapping stakeholder perceptions of
legitimate institutions and their sources of legitimacy in global renewable
energy governance

  

  

01

 **战后国际思想中的极右主义、现实主义** **和保守主义政治**

 **  
**

 **题目：** The radical Right, realism, and the politics of conservatism in
postwar international thought

 **作者：** Jean-François Drolet，英国伦敦玛丽女王大学政治与国际关系学院；Michael C.
Williams，加拿大渥太华大学公共与国际事务研究生院。

 **摘要：**
在过去十年中，激进右翼势力的崛起创造了这样一种局面，即要求与激进保守势力的知识起源、成就和不断变化的世界观进行接触。然而，自1945年以来，保守思想似乎在理论领域没有明显的地位，而理论领域一直在进行国际关系学科的辩论。本文试图解释这种缺失的一些原因。在第一部分中，我们认为在该领域发展的早期实际上有一股清晰的激进保守思想，并恢复了一些被遗忘的立场。在第二部分中，我们认为，这些观点几近消失的部分原因可以追溯到一个概念创新的过程，通过这个过程，战后现实主义思想家试图打造一种保守的自由主义，以排除激进右翼立场的方式定义了新兴领域的理论替代品。回顾这段历史，挑战了国际关系关于其发展、身份和承诺的一些最持久的叙述，特别是在现实主义和自由主义之间的定义之战中寻找其起源的持续趋势。它还提请注意被忽视的资源，以反思激进派右翼在当代世界政治中的挑战。

  

The rise of the radical Right over the last decade has created a situation
that demands engagement with the intellectual origins, achievements, and
changing worldviews of radical conservative forces. Yet, conservative thought
seems to have no distinct place in the theoretical field that has structured
debates within the discipline of IR since 1945. This article seeks to explain
some of the reasons for this absence. In the first part, we argue that there
was in fact a clear strand of radical conservative thought in the early years
of the field's development and recover some of these forgotten positions. In
the second part, we argue that the near disappearance of those ideas can be
traced in part to a process of ‘conceptual innovation’ through which postwar
realist thinkers sought to craft a ‘conservative liberalism’ that defined the
emerging field's theoretical alternatives in ways that excluded radical right-
wing positions. Recovering this history challenges some of IR's most enduring
narratives about its development, identity, and commitments – particularly the
continuing tendency to find its origins in a defining battle between realism
and liberalism. It also draws attention to overlooked resources to reflect
upon the challenge of the radical Right in contemporary world politics.

  

 **编译：** 丁伟航

  

02

 **核武器、灭绝与人类世：**

 **** **再观乔纳森·谢尔** ****

 **  
**

 **题目：** Nuclear weapons, extinction, and the Anthropocene: Reappraising
Jonathan Schell

 **作者：** Rens van Munster，丹麦国际问题研究所高级研究员；Casper Sylvest，南丹麦大学历史学院副教授。

 **摘要：**
在人类世研究中，国际关系必须考虑人为灭绝的可能性。近来关于推进地球政治新词汇的有力尝试往往倾向于贬低当前困境与核时代之间深刻的历史和智识联系。相比之下，文章认为必须重新审视冷战期间核与环境问题的联系以追溯当今错综复杂的安全问题的起源。文章重新审视乔纳森·谢尔（1943-2014，《地球的命运》作者）的研究，他认为物种灭绝是核时代的一个决定性特征。文章展示了与核武器的深入接触如何使谢尔将地球理解为一个复杂、微妙的生态系统，并为汉娜·阿伦特的灭绝理论提供灵感。尽管该理论存在冲突与局限性，但文章认为谢尔的研究仍然与重新思考人类-
地球关系与对待人类世紧密相连。

  

In the Anthropocene, International Relations must confront the possibility of
anthropogenic extinction. Recent, insightful attempts to advance new
vocabularies of planet politics tend to demote the profound historical and
intellectual links between our current predicament and the nuclear age. In
contrast, we argue that it is vital to revisit the nuclear-environment nexus
of the Cold War to trace genealogies of today's intricate constellation of
security problems. We do so by reappraising the work of Jonathan Schell
(1943–2014), author of The Fate of the Earth (1982), who came to regard
extinction as a defining feature of the nuclear age. We show how a deep
engagement with nuclear weapons led Schell to an understanding of the Earth as
a complex, delicate ecology and fed into a sophisticated, Arendtian theory of
extinction. Despite its limitations and tensions, we argue that Schell's work
remains deeply relevant for rethinking human–Earth relations and confronting
the Anthropocene.

  

 **编译：** 池佳曈

  

03

 **再评国际关系中国学派：**

 **** **一个后殖民视角** ****

 **  
**

 **题目：** Reappraising the Chinese School of International Relations: A
postcolonial perspective

 **作者：** Yih-Jye
Hwang，莱顿大学助理教授，他的研究重点是东亚的文化和身份政治、东亚的人类安全方法、中国的战略和正义战争思想、后西方IR、后结构主义和民族主义理论。

 **摘要：** 文章旨在重新审视国际关系中国学派并讨论在现有规范中如何看待和处理它，尤其是在福柯、巴巴和斯皮瓦克提出的权力-
抵抗分析框架内。本文的观点是双重的：首先，通过通过模仿西方主流国际关系理论，中国学派试图重振中国传统概念（王权，天下体系，关系性）。这些概念将中国学派引入权力的现实主义概念、世界主义的自由逻辑、关系的建构主义观点，因此，中国学派用西方目前用来对抗非西方世界的概念和主题来对抗西方世界。然而，正如第二部分将论证的，中国学派被视为一种相反的话语是有其正当性的，能够模仿并改变主流国际关系学者使用的概念、想法与原则的原始意义。此外，随着战略本质主义的审慎使用，中国学派可能成为一个地方性群体，在后西方国际关系规范中通过团结各方努力形成一致的“反霸权集团”，成为更广泛的冲击西方主导的一部分。

  

This article aims to revisit the enterprise of the Chinese School (CS) of IR
and discuss how it should be viewed and handled in the discipline,
specifically from within the analytical framework of the power/resistance
nexus put forward by Foucault, Bhabha, and Spivak. The argument of this
article is twofold. Firstly, the CS attempts to reinvigorate traditional
Chinese concepts (that is, humane authority, the Tianxia system, and
relationality), which mimick Western mainstream IR. These concepts channel the
CS into a realist notion of power, a liberal logic of cosmopolitanism, and a
constructivist idea of relationality. Thus, the CS uses against the West
concepts and themes that the West currently use against the non-Western world.
Nevertheless, as the second part of the argument will demonstrate, the
enterprise of the CS can still be justified because it can be regarded as a
reverse discourse; mimicking yet altering the original meanings of the taken-
for-granted concepts, ideas, and principles used by mainstream IR scholars.
Moreover, with the judicious use of strategic essentialism, the CS can
potentially be one local group in a wider effort to contest diffused and
decentred forms of Western domination through linking various struggles to
form a unified ‘counter-hegemonic bloc’ of post-Western IR in the discipline.

  

 **编译：** 池佳曈

  

04

 **同行评议和遵守国际反腐败规范：经合组织贿赂问题工作组的启示**

 **  
**

 **题目：** Peer review and compliance with international anti-corruption norms:
Insights from the OECD Working Group on Bribery

 **作者：** Hortense Jongen，阿姆斯特丹自由大学国际关系助理教授。

 **摘要：**
我们将如何确保各国不仅能签署国际反腐败公约，还能在签署之后遵守条约呢？国家间的同行评议为这个问题提供了答案。本文开发了一个理论框架以研究同行评议能够促进国家间遵守的不同过程与机制，主要关注透明度、压力与学习能力三个过程。文章将这一框架应用于经合组织贿赂问题工作组，以确定本次同行评议的参与者能在多大程度上认可这些过程与促进国家遵守规定相关。文章所使用的数据来源于一个在线调查（74次观察）与17次深度访谈。研究结果显示，同行评议的实践被认为在创造国家行为的透明度、动员压力与刺激学习方面有效。然而，这些流程促进遵从的程度是有限的。若要发挥作用，政治意愿至关重要。

  

How can we make sure that states do not only sign international anti-
corruption conventions, but also comply with them once the ink has dried? Peer
review among states offers one answer to this question. This article develops
a theoretical framework to study the different processes and mechanisms
through which peer reviews can contribute to state compliance. It focuses on
three processes: transparency, pressure, and learning. The article
subsequently applies this framework to the OECD Working Group on Bribery (WGB)
in order to identify how far participants in this peer review perceive the WGB
as capable of organising these processes, and to what extent they consider
these processes relevant for promoting state compliance. Data come from an
online survey (74 observations) and 17 in-depth interviews. The findings
reveal that this peer review exercise is perceived as effective in creating
transparency about state behaviour, mobilising pressure, and stimulating
learning. However, the extent to which these processes can promote compliance
is more limited. For these processes to work, political will is crucial.

  

 **编译：** 池佳曈

  

05

 **官僚权力的核心：解读国际官僚机构的专家权威**

 **  
**

 **题目：** The heart of bureaucratic power: Explaining international
bureaucracies’ expert authority

 **作者：** Andrea
Liese，波茨坦大学国际关系学教授。她的研究兴趣包括国际组织及其官僚机构、专家权威、国际规范动态以及（可持续的）发展和人权治理。Jana
Herold，是联合国粮食及农业组织（粮农组织）的助理专业干事，她的研究兴趣包括国际组织和发展合作。Hauke
Feil，是德意志联邦银行的统计学家，他的主要研究领域是国际组织、调查方法和发展合作。Per-Olof
Busch，是adelphi的高级项目经理，adelphi是一家领先的独立气候、环境和发展智库。

 **摘要：**
专家权威被认为是国际官僚机构权力的核心。为了衡量国际官僚机构的专家权威是否真正得到了承认和尊重，作者采用了对121个国家的国家部委政策单位的官员进行的一项关键人群调查的新数据。受访者被问及在多大程度上认可九个国际官僚机构在农业和金融政策各专题领域的专家权威，结果显示差异很大。为了解释这一差异，本文检验了学界公认的关于实际专家权威来源的一些既定假设。具体地说，本文关注的是部委官员对这些消息来源的看法，因此，文章聚焦权威关系中研究较少的一个方面。本文研究了公正性、客观性、全球影响力的感观以及知识不对称性在塑造国际官僚机构专家权威性中扮演的角色。与通常的假设相反，研究表明事实上的专家权威并不依赖于公正的认知，而且感知的客观性在所有考虑的因素中起到的作用最小。我们发现一些迹象表明，知识不对称与更多的专家权威有关。尽管如此，最重要的因素还是国际官僚机构正在有效应对全球挑战的观念，这对各种替代性规范都是有力的。

  

Expert authority is regarded as the heart of international bureaucracies’
power. To measure whether inter-national bureaucracies’ expert authority is
indeed recognised and deferred to, we draw on novel data from a survey of a
key audience: officials in the policy units of national ministries in 121
countries. Respondents were asked to what extent they recognised the expert
authority of nine international bureaucracies in various thematic areas of
agricultural and financial policy. The results show wide variance. To explain
this variation, we test well-established assumptions on the sources of de
facto expert authority. Specifically, we look at ministry officials’
perceptions of these sources and, thus, focus on a less-studied aspect of the
authority relationship. We examine the role of international bureaucracies’
perceived impartiality, objectivity, global impact, and the role of knowledge
asymmetries. Contrary to common assumptions, we find that de facto expert
authority does not rest on impartiality perceptions, and that perceived
objectivity plays the smallest role of all factors considered. We find some
indications that knowledge asymmetries are associated with more expert
authority. Still, and robust to various alternative specifications, the
perception that international bureaucracies are effectively addressing global
challenges is the most important factor.

  

 **编译：** 孟晓宇

  

06

 **制度复杂性下的合法性：绘制利益相关者对合法制度的看法及其在全球可再生能源治理中的合法性来源**

 **  
**

 **题目：** Legitimacy under institutional complexity: Mapping stakeholder
perceptions of legitimate institutions and their sources of legitimacy in
global renewable energy governance

 **作者：** Naghmeh Nasiritousi，斯德哥尔摩大学博士后研究员；Hugo Faber，卡罗林斯卡学院的政治学博士。

 **摘要：**
近年来，国际制度的合法性越来越受到学者的关注，但涉及利益相关者对一个治理领域内共存的制度合法性的看法分析却很少。受全球气候和能源治理领域制度激增的推动，本研究描绘了利益相关者对合法制度的看法及其在全球可再生能源治理中的合法性来源。具体而言，本文对现有文献做出了三个贡献。从理论上讲，本文对合法性概念进行了剖析，提供了一个多维的合法性概念。从方法上讲，本文通过三个开放性调查问题捕捉到了合法性的不同维度。从经验上讲，本文绘制了气候和能源专家对合法性的看法，不仅显示了哪些机构被认为是最合法的，还阐释了其具备合法性的原因，以及不同利益相关者之间的差异。因此，本文通过对在制度复杂性下运作的国际机构之间的合法性来源提供新见解，为合法性文献做出贡献。

  

The legitimacy of international institutions has in recent years received
growing interest from scholars, yet analyses of stakeholder perceptions of the
legitimacy of institutions that coexist within a governance field have been
few in number. Motivated by the proliferation of institutions in the field of
global climate and energy governance, this study maps stakeholder perceptions
of legitimate institutions and their sources of legitimacy in global renewable
energy governance. Specifically, the article makes three contributions to the
existing literature. Theoretically, it unpacks the legitimacy concept and
offers a multidimensional conception of legitimacy. Methodologically, it
captures these different dimensions of legitimacy by relying on three open
survey questions. Empirically, it maps legitimacy perceptions among climate
and energy experts and not only shows which institutions are considered most
legitimate, but also why they are considered legitimate and how this varies
between different stakeholders. The article thereby contributes to the
literature on legitimacy by providing new insights into the sources of
legitimacy among international institutions that operate under institutional
complexity.

 **  
**

 **编译：** 孟晓宇

**好好学习，天天“在看”**<img src='/images/611/4.gif' width='17' height='17' />

<img src='/images/611/5.png' width='100%' />

![]()

国政学人

支持学术公益与知识传播

![赞赏二维码]() **微信扫一扫赞赏作者** __赞赏

已喜欢，[对作者说句悄悄话](javascript:;)

取消 __

#### 发送给作者

发送

最多40字，当前共字

[](javascript:;) 人赞赏

上一页 [1](javascript:;)/3 下一页

长按二维码向我转账

支持学术公益与知识传播

![赞赏二维码]()

受苹果公司新规定影响，微信 iOS 版的赞赏功能被关闭，可通过二维码转账支持公众号。

