---
title: 【新刊速递】《国际事务》(IA),Vol.98,No.1,2022｜国政学人
date: 2022-03-01 20:50:00
author: 国政学人
tags: ['新刊速递']
---


收录于合集 #新刊速递 123个

![](/images/209/2.gif)

  

**期刊简介**

  

<img src='/images/209/3.png' width='100%' />

  

《国际事务》（ _International Affairs_
）是国际关系领域的一流学术期刊，也是多学科综合性学术期刊。本刊于1992年由伦敦皇家国际事务研究所查塔姆学院（Chatham
House）创立，内容来源广泛，力图囊括业内专家、学术新秀对重点、热点问题的最新思考。2020年期刊影响因子为7.910，在95个国际关系类刊物中位列第1名。本期内容为种族主义专题。

  

 **本期目录**

  

 **1\. 殖民主义对政策和国际关系中知识生产的影响**

The Impact of Colonialism on Policy and Knowledge Production in International
Relations

  

 **2\. 尚武主义者、和平主义者与帝国：1914年以前国际思想中的种族和种族主义**

Warriors, Pacifists and Empires: Race and Racism in International Thought
before 1914

  

 **3\. 服从的反抗：构想非洲的无核区**

Obedient Rebellion: Conceiving the African Nuclear Weapon-free Zone

  

**4\. 日本的殖民政策学：是南洋的种族愿景，还是全球南方的早期创建**

Colonial Policy Studies in Japan: Racial Visions of Nan'yo, or the Early
Creation of a Global South

  

 **5\. 妇女、阿富汗和平及其重返社会的进程**

Women and the Afghan Peace and Reintegration Process

  

 **6\. 国际关系学科的意识形态、社会化和霸权**

Ideology, Socialization and Hegemony in Disciplinary International Relations

  

 **7\. 现代世界秩序建立中的种族和种族主义**

Race and Racism in the Founding of the Modern World Order

  

 **8\. 从话语到实践：东方主义、西方政策与阿拉伯起义**

From Discourse to Practice: Orientalism, Western Policy and the Arab Uprisings

  

 **9\. 国际关系关于安全的理论化中的非洲经验和可替代性**

African Experiences and Alternativity in International Relations Theorizing
about Security

  

 **10\. 研究气候正义：一个全球气候治理的去殖民化方法**

Researching climate justice: a decolonial approach to global climate
governance

  

 **11\. 日本的殖民政策研究：南太平洋的种族愿景或全球南方的早期创建**

Colonial policy studies in Japan: racial visions of Nan'yo, or the early
creation of a global South

  

 **12, 在移动走廊和固定边界之间：巴勒斯坦/以色列的种族、稳定和摩擦**

Between mobile corridors and immobilizing borders: race, fixity and friction
in Palestine/Israel

  

 **13\. 国际政治中反叛乱的殖民根源**

The colonial roots of counter-insurgencies in international politics

  

 **14\. 探索白人机制：反恐从业者如何破坏反种族主义知识**

Exploring mechanisms of whiteness: how counterterrorism practitioners disrupt
anti-racist expertise

  

 **15\. 英国外交政策中的精英—大众协议**  

Elite–mass agreement in British foreign policy

  

 **16\. 种族隔离后南非大屠杀纪念的殖民主义**  

The coloniality of Holocaust memorialization in post-apartheid South Africa

  

 **17\. 战士、和平主义者与帝国：1914年之前国际思想中的种族和种族主义**

Warriors, pacifists and empires: race and racism in international thought
before 1914

  

01

 **殖民主义对政策和国际关系中知识生产的影响**

  

 **题目：** The Impact of Colonialism on Policy and Knowledge Production in
International Relations

 **作者：** Jasmine K Gani，圣安德鲁斯大学国际关系学院高级讲师；Jenna Marshall，德国卡塞尔大学（University
Kassel）发展和后殖民研究系博士。

 **摘要：**
学术和政策之间存在分歧吗？这种分歧需要弥合吗？几十年来，国际关系（IR）学者一直在反思他们在“现实世界”中的角色和责任，而政策制定者经常批评学术研究与现实的脱离。作为回应，越来越多的人呼吁学者们从“象牙塔”中走出来。然而，《国际事务》100周年特刊的文章质疑了这种所谓的理论—政策分歧和学者与实践者之间的知识交流，突出了他们历史纠葛中的殖民基础。本篇介绍性文章汇集了本特刊论文的核心论点，描述了学者与实践者之间的三个突出的动态关系：学术界作为殖民地政策知识提供者的角色；帝国实践和政策制定者对国际关系和学术知识生产的影响；学术界和（或）实践者对知识生产和决策中的种族等级制度的争论。在国际关系的理论和实践中，任何修复进程所必须的第一步都是要直面国际关系中排斥、遗忘和否认殖民主义的状况，之后才能走向更公正和可行的政治生态。

  

Is there an academic–policy divide, and does that gap need to be bridged? For
decades, International Relations (IR) scholars have reflected on their roles
and responsibilities towards the ‘real world’, while policy-makers have often
critiqued the detachment of academic research. In response, there have been
increased calls for academics to descend from their ‘ivory tower’. However,
the articles in this 100th anniversary special issue of International Affairs
interrogate this so-called theory–policy divide and problematize the exchange
of knowledge between academics and practitioners, highlighting the colonial
underpinnings of their historical entanglements. In this introductory article
we bring together the core arguments of the special issue contributions to
delineate three prominent dynamics in the academic–practitioner nexus: the
role of academia as a supplier of knowledge for colonial policies; the
influence of imperial practice and policy-makers in shaping IR and academic
knowledge production; and the contestation from academics and/or practitioners
against racial hierarchies in knowledge production and policy-making.
Confronting the exclusions, amnesias and denials of colonialism in the theory
and practice of International Relations is the necessary first step in any
process of repair towards a more just and viable politics.

  

02

 **尚武主义者、和平主义者与帝国：1914年以前国际思想中的种族和种族主义**

  

 **题目：** Warriors, Pacifists and Empires: Race and Racism in International
Thought before 1914

 **作者：** Lucian M Ashworth，纽芬兰纪念大学（Memorial University of Newfoundland,
MUN）政治学教授。

 **摘要：**
1914年以前，国际思想的学者们经常持有种族主义观点，然而不同作者运用借用种族概念的方式大相径庭。本文描述了两组英语作家使用“种族”的方式。尚武主义者们利用生物学的论据来构建基于种族主义的国际事务观点。和平主义者可能会使用更多使用基于文化偏见的种族主义语言，而且往往会以文明使命的理念为基础构建对于国际事务的更进步的观点。本文以马汉和布鲁克斯·亚当斯作为战士精神的典范，以诺曼·安吉尔和布雷斯福德为例分析和平主义者的思想。本文认为，种族和种族主义在第一次世界大战之前的国际思想中发挥了重要作用。这种种族主义的对象包括全球南方的被殖民者，殖民国家的土著居民，以及全球北方的犹太人。在第一次世界大战前的国际思想中使用种族和种族主义对我们如何看待今天的国际关系的发展有影响。我们不仅需要彻底重新评估对种族的态度，还需要再思考如何理解国际思想的进步。

  

Before 1914 scholars of international thought frequently relied on racist
arguments, yet the ways that race was used varied widely from author to
author. This article charts the way that race was used by two groups of
Anglophone writers. The warriors used biological arguments to construct views
of international affairs that relied on racist analysis. Pacifists might have
used racist language that relied more on cultural prejudices, and would often
base their more progressive views of international affairs on the idea of a
civilizing mission. Using A. T. Mahan and Brooks Adams as exemplars of the
warrior approach, and Norman Angell and H. N. Brailsford for the pacifists, I
argue that race and racism play an important part in international thought
before the First World War. This racism was directed at the colonized in the
global South, Indigenous peoples in settler colonial states, and Jews in the
global North. This use of race and racism in pre-First World War international
thought has implications for how we view the development of International
Relations today. It is not just statues and stately homes that require a
thorough reassessment of attitudes to race, but also our understanding of the
progression of ideas in international thought.

  

03

 **服从的反抗：构想非洲无核区**

  

 **题目：** Obedient rebellion: conceiving the African nuclear weapon-free zone

 **作者：** 西兹韦·姆普夫·沃尔什（Sizwe Mpofu-
Walsh），南非作家、学者、媒体创新者和音乐家。他目前是Wits社会和经济研究所的博士后研究员，也是青年时事节目Sizze Mpofu Walsh
Xperience（SMWX）的创始人。

 **摘要：**
为何无核武器区（NWFZs），即禁止核武器的地区，在某些特定区域而非其他区域出现？本文以非洲为案例，引入了“服从的反抗”这一概念来解释非洲无核武器区的早期概念。“服从的反抗”是一种对全球核秩序的矛盾态度。对新近去殖民化的非洲国家来说，非洲无核武器区既象征着后殖民时代的反核团结，又象征着核责任，既代表了对全球核秩序的“服从”，又代表着对全球核秩序的“反抗”。这种“服从”与“反抗”的矛盾心理，矛盾地同时容纳了多种冲突的受众，从而稳定了该地区。非洲无核武器区的早期构想让我们深入了解到，世界无核武器区以及核秩序本身至今仍被复杂的、相互竞争的力量所约束。无核武器区集中体现了为稳定核秩序而引发的紧张关系：主权平等与核不平等、地区团结与全球忠诚、争论与妥协。起初，这些紧张局势似乎危及了无核武器区。但事实上，这些紧张局势稳定了无核武器区。非洲区也对国际关系理论中仍然存在的非洲盲点提出了挑战。

  

Why do nuclear weapon-free zones (NWFZs)—areas which prohibit nuclear
weapons—emerge in some contexts, and not others? Focusing on the African case,
this article introduces the concept of ‘obedient rebellion’ to explain the
African NWFZ's early conception. ‘Obedient rebellion’ is an attitude of
ambivalence toward global nuclear order. To newly-decolonizing African states,
the African NWFZ symbolized both postcolonial anti-nuclear solidarity and
nuclear responsibility; it represented both ‘obedience’ to—and ‘rebellion’
against—global nuclear order. This ambivalence, between ‘obedience’ and
‘rebellion’, paradoxically accommodated multiple conflicting audiences
simultaneously, thereby stabilising the zone. The African NWFZ's ambiguous
meanings made it viable, even though those meanings conflicted. The zone's
early conception offers insight into the complex, contending forces that
continue to bind the world's NWFZs—and indeed nuclear order itself—to the
present. NWFZs epitomize the tensions which stabilize nuclear order: between
sovereign equality and nuclear inequality; between local solidarities and
global loyalties; and between contestation and compromise. At first, these
tensions seem to imperil NWFZs; in fact, these tensions stabilize NWFZs. The
African zone also poses challenges to the African blind spot that continues to
exist in International Relations theory.

  

04

 **日本的殖民政策学：是南洋的种族愿景，还是全球南方的早期创建**

  

 **题目：** Colonial policy studies in Japan: racial visions of Nan'yo, or the
early creation of a global South

 **作者：** Tomohito
Baji，东京大学艺术与科学研究生院高级社会与国际研究系副教授，主要研究有关20世纪初帝国主义时期的英国、美国和日本与国际关系理论。

 **摘要：** 本文考察了日本的殖民政策学，特别关注其与“南洋”这一独特地区的关系。通过分析竹越与三郎(Takekoshi
Yosaburo)、新渡户稻造（Nitobe Inazo）和矢内原忠雄（Yanaihara
Tadao）的研究，揭示了该领域的研究者对南洋的解释是如何基于他们对种族的理解的。此外，本文还论述了他们是如何将设想的种族等级体系观念施加到南太平洋，以及这些企图与日本帝国主义实践背后的殖民政策争议有何关联。竹越与三郎和新渡户稻造对马来人严格的种族等级的类比映射，为日本向南部的殖民提供了理由。矢内原忠雄之所以描述南洋岛民过着极度落后的生活，是为了捍卫日本对托管制度的持续拥护。文章认为，这些负面描述成为了关于殖民和种族迫害的跨国知识链的一部分。这些研究者与许多西方同行一样，建造了种族金字塔，其底部是热带地区（其中大部分与今天的全球南方相对应），他们一直是殖民主义现状的帮凶。

  

This article examines Japanese colonial policy studies (shokumin seisaku gaku)
with a particular focus on its relationship with the distinct region of
‘Nan'yo’ (the South Seas). Specifically analysing the works of Takekoshi
Yosaburo (1865–1950), Nitobe Inazo (1862–1933) and Yanaihara Tadao
(1893–1961), it seeks to uncover the ways in which the exponents of this study
area accounted for Nan'yo based on their conceptions of race.It also shows how
they inflicted envisaged racial hierarchies on the southern Pacific and how
such attempts were related to colonial policy debates behind the practice of
Japanese imperialism. Part of the findings point out that Takekoshi's and
Nitobe's comparable projections of strict racial hierarchies on the Malays
served to justify the southward colonization of the Japanese. Yanaihara's
depiction of Nan'yo islanders as radically underdeveloped was tailored to
championing Japan's sustained espousal of the League Mandate. The article
argues that their accounts of Nan'yo formed part of a transnational knowledge
chain about colonial and racial victimization. Like their western counterparts
including Gustav Le Bon, Paul Leroy-Beaulieu, Paul S. Reinsch and J. A.
Hobson, they built purported racial pyramids with the tropical areas at their
bottom, the bulk of which correspond to today's global South. They have been
accomplices in this colonial present.

  

05

 **妇女、阿富汗和平及其重返社会的进程**

  

 **题目：** Women and the Afghan Peace and Reintegration Process

 **作者：** Althea-Maria Rivas，伦敦大学发展研究系（Department of Development
Studies）全球发展、和平与冲突高级讲师，Mariam Safi，阿富汗政策研究与发展研究组织（DROPS）创始主任。

 **摘要：**
2010年，随着阿富汗政府宣布启动正式的和平进程，一些人呼吁妇女在谈判桌上占有一席之地。然而，针对阿富汗妇女与和平进程的主流和批判话语都依赖于生产本质化的主体性，这种主体性未能认识到妇女生存在政治和社会层面上的复杂性，削弱了她们的智力贡献并抑制了她们的发声。本文挑战了阿富汗和国际行为体同时对阿富汗妇女处境的过度想象和保持沉默的态度。借鉴女性主义和殖民理论，本文探究殖民干预机制、父权制和知识生产的全球等级制度如何协同作用，在边缘化阿富汗妇女的同时又维护她们作为和平代理人的地位。本文汇集了三项关于妇女与和平的参与性研究项目的研究结果，这些项目于2010-2014年在阿富汗八个省份开展。本文构建了基于参与者交叉事实的视角，突出和平的多元立场和表达、社会和政治分歧以及她们融入和平和重返社会进程中的不同障碍。本文在结语部分强调了研究结果在出版之际与阿富汗的相关性。

  

In 2010, as the Afghan government announced its intention to begin a formal
peace process, there were numerous calls for women to have a seat at the
table. Both mainstream and critical discourse on women and the peace process
in Afghanistan, however, relied on the production of essentialized
subjectivities which failed to recognize the political and social complexity
of women's lives, diminished their intellectual contributions and silenced
their voices. This article challenges the simultaneous hyper-visualization and
silencing of Afghan women by both Afghan and international actors. Drawing on
feminist and decolonial theory, we examine the ways in which the colonial
mechanisms of intervention, patriarchy and the global hierarchies of knowledge
production worked in tandem to marginalize Afghan women while upholding them
as agents of peace. The article brings together findings from three
participatory research projects on women and peace, which took place from 2010
to 2014 across eight provinces in Afghanistan. A prismed view of the
participants' intersectional realities is constructed, which highlights
diverse positionalities and articulations of peace, the social and political
cleavages, and differentiated obstacles to their involvement in the peace and
reintegration process. The concluding remarks emphasize the relevance of these
findings for Afghanistan at the time of publication.

  

06

 **国际关系学科的意识形态、社会化和霸权**

  

 **题目：** Ideology, Socialization and Hegemony in Disciplinary International
Relations

 **作者：** Randolph B Persaud，美利坚大学（American University）国际关系副教授。

 **摘要：**
本文认为，国际关系学科不仅仅解释国际事务，还通过社会化和霸权化途径向公众和专家植入了一种意识形态价值观，这种价值观大国的利益一致，支持霸权自由主义基础上的世界经济和安全秩序。本文更多关注早期英美的国际关系理论化之间的连续性，以及致力于维护霸权世界秩序的当代“学术/外交政策/安全复合体（complex）”。本文认为，呼吁在国际事务中建立更大的理论-
政策联系是多余的，因为主要的美国学者兼任政策制定者，无论是直接还是通过咨询等其他途径。一些最为著名的国际关系学者，如迈克尔·多伊尔、约翰·刘易斯·加迪斯、塞缪尔·亨廷顿、G·约翰·伊肯伯里、斯蒂芬·克拉斯纳、西奥多·莫兰、约瑟夫·奈和安妮-
玛丽·斯劳特等，都曾在美国外交政策和安全机构担任过高级职位。本文还展示了在早期英国国际关系理论化的过程中，莱昂内尔•柯蒂斯、艾尔弗雷德•齐默尔和诺曼•安吉尔等学者都兼任了大英帝国坚定捍卫者的要职，尽管他们坚持自由国际主义的论调。

  

This article argues that Disciplinary International Relations (DIR) does not
only explain international affairs, but it also socializes and hegemonizes
publics and professionals into an ideological worldview consistent with the
interest of states that underwrite the world economic and security order based
on hegemonic liberalism. Considerable emphasis is placed on tracing the
continuities between the early theorization of IR in the United Kingdom and
the United States, and the contemporary academic/foreign policy/security
‘complex’ dedicated to the maintenance of a hegemonic world order. The article
demonstrates that the call for a greater theory–policy nexus in international
affairs is redundant because leading American scholars double up as policy-
makers, either directly or through other avenues such as consultancies. Some
of the most prominent IR scholars, such as Michael Doyle, John Lewis Gaddis,
Samuel Huntington, G. John Ikenberry, Stephen Krasner, Theodore H. Moran,
Joseph Nye and Anne-Marie Slaughter, among others, have served in high-level
positions in the United States foreign policy and security apparatus. The
article also shows the ways in which in the early days of IR theorizing in the
UK, scholars such as Lionel Curtis, Alfred Zimmern and Norman Angell doubled
as staunch defenders of the British Empire, albeit in the language of liberal
internationalism.

  

07

 **现代世界秩序建立中的种族和种族主义** ****

  

 **题目：** Race and racism in the founding of the modern world order

 **作者：** Amitav Acharya，华盛顿特区美利坚大学国际服务学院杰出教授，研究兴趣为东南亚、多边主义和全球治理和国际关系理论。

 **摘要：**
尽管种族在历史早期便作为一种文化标志而存在，但种族主义、奴隶制和帝国三者间相互强化的联系是西欧及美国所领导的世界秩序下的独有产物。然而，国际关系的主流研究却并未重视种族问题，甚至将其排除在对建立世界秩序的讨论之外。与此同时，反殖民力量对种族平等的追求催生了另一种更为包容的世界秩序概念。本文第一部分简要介绍了种族、种族主义和世界秩序的概念。第二部分分析了种族主义思想和规范是如何创造排他性的世界秩序框架和方法的，例如欧洲“文明标准”原则（the
European ‘standard of civilization’
principle）。第三部分探讨了种族主义在美国主导的世界秩序形成中发挥的作用，这包括美国总统伍德罗·威尔逊拒绝《国际联盟宪章》中的“种族平等”原则，在《联合国宪章》中“主权平等”优先于“种族平等”，以及《世界人权宣言》对殖民主义和剥夺人权之间的联系缺乏关注。然而，反殖民力量的领导人和相关国际会议，特别是1955年的万隆会议，将国家主权、种族主义和殖民主义三者整合，并要求将种族平等作为一项基本人权。本文的最后一部分告诫人们警惕在学术研究中安于现状和将种族和种族主义研究加以区分的危险，并呼吁将种族主义视为与其他问题相互关联的全球挑战，进而将其纳入全球国际关系（Global
International Relations）的新兴研究议程。

  

While race existed as a cultural marker in earlier history, a mutually-
reinforcing link between racism, slavery and empire is a distinct product of
western Europe and the US-led world order. Yet, mainstream scholarship on
International Relations has obscured the question of race or worse,
legitimized its exclusion in discussions of world order-building. At the same
time, demand for racial equality from anti-colonial forces presented an
alternative and inclusive conception of world order. The first part of this
article offers a brief discussion of concepts of race, racism and world order.
The next part examines how racist ideas and norms created exclusionary
frameworks and approaches of world order, such as the European ‘standard of
civilization’ principle. The third part looks at the role of racism in the
emergence of the American-led world order, including US President Woodrow
Wilson's rejection of the ‘racial equality’ principle in the League of Nations
Charter, the privileging of ‘sovereign equality’ over ‘racial equality’ in the
UN Charter, and the scant attention given to the link between colonialism and
denial of human rights in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Yet,
anti-colonial leaders and conferences, especially the 1955 Bandung Conference,
integrated ‘national sovereignty, racialism and colonialism’, and demanded
racial equality as a fundamental human right. The final part cautions against
the dangers of complacency and compartmentalizing the study of race and
racism, and calls instead for viewing racism as an inter-linked global
challenge, hence integral to the emerging research agenda of Global
International Relations.

  

08

 **从话语到实践：东方主义、西方政策与阿拉伯起义**

  

 **题目：** From Discourse to Practice: Orientalism, Western Policy and the Arab
Uprisings

 **作者：** Jasmine K
Gani，圣安德鲁斯大学国际关系学院高级讲师兼叙利亚研究中心联席主任，研究重点是：欧美帝国在中东和亚洲的历史；美叙关系；反殖民史、神学和政治思想；意识形态和社会运动。

 **摘要：**
阿拉伯起义已经过去了十年，如今我们得以评估知识、话语和实践之间的联系如何对抗议活动的发展轨迹产生影响。它们代表着该地区数百万阿拉伯人的希望，但对于欧洲和美国的旁观者来说，这在多大程度上也会有同样态度？中东事件中的西方话语重要吗？虽然推翻长期独裁者引起了阿拉伯民众的欢呼，但它反过来也引起了不少西方政府的焦虑和恐慌。这在西方评论中反映得最为明显——西方话语由最初的庆祝转变为对起义的失望、悲观和否认。不到一年，专栏和学术文章纷纷发问，“阿拉伯之春”是否已经变成了“伊斯兰之冬”，又回归到东方主义关于中东无法避免地区冲突、流血事件和宗派主义的相关叙述。作者认为这种话语对起义的结果有影响，因为“潜在的东方主义”被转化为“显性的东方主义”，西方国家对其最初支持的反对派团体的态度变得举棋不定。本文首先对起义第一年的西方话语进行了研究，然后将其置于西方政策和中东代表的漫长历史中。在最后一节中，作者探讨了学术研究和智库在东方主义话语所扮演的角色。

  

Ten years on since the Arab uprisings we are in a position to assess how the
nexus between knowledge, discourse and practice had a bearing on the
trajectory of the protests. They represented hope and change for millions of
Arabs in the region, but to what extent was that the case for onlookers in
Europe and the US, and did western discourse on events in the Middle East
matter? While the toppling of longstanding dictators was met with jubilation
by Arab populations, it conversely created anxiety and fear in many western
governments. This was reflected in the shift from an initially celebratory
discourse in western commentary to disappointment, pessimism and disavowal of
the uprisings. Within a year, op-eds and academic articles were asking whether
the ‘Arab Spring’ had turned into an ‘Islamist winter’, reverting to
Orientalist narratives about the inevitability of conflict, bloodshed and
sectarianism in the Middle East. I argue this discourse had implications for
the outcome of the uprisings as ‘latent Orientalism’ translated into ‘manifest
Orientalism’ and western states hesitated to support opposition groups they
initially encouraged and emboldened. I begin the article with a study of
western discourse in the first year of the uprisings, which I then situate
within a long durée history of western policy and representation of the Middle
East. In the final sections I consider the role of scholarship and think tanks
as mediators of Orientalist discourse.

  

09

 **国际关系关于安全的理论化中的非洲经验和可替代性**

  

 **题目：** African Experiences and Alternativity in International Relations
Theorizing about Security

 **作者：** Kwaku Danso，加纳科菲·安南国际维和培训中心学术事务与研究学院研究员；Kwesi
Aning，加纳科菲·安南国际维和培训中心学术事务和研究学院院长，美国肯尼绍州立大学维和实践指导教授。

 **摘要：**
解构国际关系的知识承认其在安全知识方面产生的权力失衡将非洲的经验贬低至全球政治中的边缘化地位。这一贬低过程的核心是一种普遍存在的“方法论上的白人主义”，尽管略去了殖民性和种族主义，但将白人的经验视为一种普遍视角。伴随着这种欧洲中心主义的偏见的是把韦伯式的国家视为安全治理和冲突预防的最有效场所的想法强行投射到非洲大陆，而这些国家以政治秩序的混合性为特征，大大偏离了人们试图效仿的理想类型国家。这不仅在非洲的许多地区导致了灾难性的政策，而且在传统的国际关系和安全研究作为非洲安全的不带偏见的知识生产和政策制定的中立场所的相关性方面也出现了关键问题，因此需要具有替代性的观点。本文反思了国际关系和安全研究在一定程度上对一种种族化的安全知识生成模式的产生负责任的方式，这种模式混淆了非洲地区的安全政策和非洲人民的经验。它借鉴了后殖民话语和替代性知识的见解，探讨了以理论自觉的方式研究非洲的事件和过程如何能够推动整个国际关系学术研究的发展。本文认为，将非洲的经验通过复合安全秩序体现出来能够拓宽国际关系关于安全的理论化的经验基础，因为它们提供了传统西方假定和经验之外的另一种视角。

  

Deconstructing International Relations (IR) episteme acknowledges its
generation of power imbalances in security knowledge that relegate African
experiences to the margins of global politics. Central to this process of
relegation is a pervasive ‘methodological whiteness’, which, while eliding
coloniality and racism, projects white experience as a universal perspective.
Accompanying this Eurocentric bias has been the intrusive projection of the
Weberian state as the most effective site for security governance and conflict
prevention on a continent with states that are characterized by a hybridity of
political orders, which deviate substantially from the ideal-type state that
they seek to mimic. Not only has this resulted in disastrous policies in many
parts of Africa, but critical questions arise as to the relevance of
conventional IR and security studies as neutral sites for dispassionate
knowledge production and policy-making on African security, thereby
necessitating alternative perspectives. This article reflects on the ways in
which IR and security studies have been responsible, in part, for the
production of a racialized mode of security knowledge generation that
obfuscates the security policies and experiences of people in African locales.
It draws on insights from post-colonial discourses and the episteme of
alternativity to explore how the study of events and processes in Africa in a
theoretically conscious manner could advance IR scholarship as a whole. It
contends that incorporating African experiences as they manifest through
hybrid security orders can broaden the empirical base for IR theorizing about
security since they offer another perspective outside the conventional western
assumptions and experiences.

  

10

 **研究气候正义：一个全球气候治理的去殖民化方法**

  

 **题目：** Researching climate justice: a decolonial approach to global climate
governance

 **作者：** Jan Wilkens，德国汉堡大学“气候、气候变化和社会”卓越集群地球系统研究与可持续发展中心综合团队博士后；Alvine R. C.
Datchoua-Tirvaudey，德国汉堡大学“气候、气候变化和社会”卓越集群地球系统研究与可持续发展中心研究助理。

 **摘要：**
本文通过在全球气候治理的背景下思考知识生产的殖民性，来解决本特刊的更广泛的问题。凭借本特刊的基本逻辑，作者强调了知识影响气候政策的关键动力，并通过解释认知气候正义的不同方式，提出了学术知识生产和政策制定之间联系的一种去殖民化方法。为此，本文探究如何发展一种研究气候正义的去殖民化方法，以确定在作者所描述的北极和地中海等敏感地区受影响的人们使用气候正义的意义。为此，本文发展了一个解释不同认知方式的研究设计。本文内容如下：第一，作者将讨论不同认知方式如何与全球气候治理和气候正义相关；第二，作者将概述基于实践的研究框架，该框架强调了研究伦理、去殖民化方法和规范争论；第三，作者将讨论其方法如何不仅能够为气候治理研究的共同产出提供信息，而且能够为当前关于气候正义的争论提供信息。

  

This article addresses the broader question of the special issue by reflecting
on the coloniality of knowledge production in a context of global climate
governance. Drawing on the rationale of the special issue, we highlight key
dynamics in which knowledge shape climate policies and propose a decolonial
approach at the nexus of academic knowledge production and policy formation by
accounting for diverse ways of knowing climate justice. To this end, the
article asks how to develop a decolonial approach to researching climate
justice in order to identify the meaning-in-use of climate justice by affected
people in what we describe as sensitive regions of the Arctic and the
Mediterranean. To this end, the article develops a research design that
accounts for diverse ways of knowing. The article proceeds as follows: first,
we will discuss how diverse ways of knowing are related to global climate
governance and climate justice; second, we outline our practice-based research
framework that addresses research ethics, decolonial approaches and norm
contestation; and third, we discuss how our approach can inform not only the
co-production of research in climate governance, but also current debates on
climate justice.

  

编译 | 陈勇 陈思涵 董诗 胡富钦 林怡娉

审校 | 谢菁 施榕

排版 | 苏伊文 梁羽

文章观点不代表本平台观点，本平台评译分享的文章均出于专业学习之用, 不以任何盈利为目的，内容主要呈现对原文的介绍，原文内容请通过各高校购买的数据库自行下载。

![](/images/209/4.gif)

![]()

国政学人

支持学术公益与知识传播

![赞赏二维码]() **微信扫一扫赞赏作者** __赞赏

已喜欢，[对作者说句悄悄话](javascript:;)

取消 __

#### 发送给作者

发送

最多40字，当前共字

[](javascript:;) 人赞赏

上一页 [1](javascript:;)/3 下一页

长按二维码向我转账

支持学术公益与知识传播

![赞赏二维码]()

受苹果公司新规定影响，微信 iOS 版的赞赏功能被关闭，可通过二维码转账支持公众号。

