---
title: 【新刊速递】《亚太国际关系》(IRAP),Vol.22,No.1,2022|国政学人
date: 2022-03-09 20:53:29
author: 国政学人
tags: ['新刊速递']
---


收录于合集 #新刊速递 123个

![](/images/186/2.gif)

  

**期刊简介**

  

<img src='/images/186/3.png' width='100%' />

  

《亚太国际关系》（ _International Relations of the Asia-Pacific_
），简称“IRAP”，是出版在亚太区域最好的原创性文章的主流国际期刊。本刊创刊于2001年，每年在一、五、九月各发行一刊。《亚太国际关系》的创刊目的有二：其一是给读者奉献亚太国际关系领域的优质研究成果，其二是为从事亚太国际关系的学者提供专业的学术平台。根据IRAP官网显示，当前影响因子为2.324。

  

本刊着眼于：亚太区域内国际关系，亚太与世界其他区域的关系、涉及亚太国家的国际关系一般性事务与理论。本刊欢迎各类研究方法与思想学派。本刊着眼于但不仅限于：亚洲价值之争、后苏哈托时期印尼外交政策、亚太地区投资的政治经济学、日本与美英的“特殊关系”、东盟与中日美大三角、亚太区域主义的兴起、国际机制的作用、柬埔寨与东帝汶的人道主义干预、朝鲜半岛的统一问题、战区导弹防御倡议与地区回应、国家主权的变更：以亚太为例、亚洲金融危机与国际货币基金组织。

  

 **本期目录**

  

 **1\. 对中国外交现代化叙事的批判：从清朝视角重新解读19世纪60年代初清朝外交机构的变迁**

A critique of Chinese diplomatic modernization narratives: reinterpreting
shifts in Qing foreign affairs institutions in the early 1860s from the Qing
perspective

  

 **2\. 中国的“旅游强制政策”：动机、方法和结果**

China’s ‘Coercive Tourism’: motives, methods and consequences

  

 **3\. 中国的大战略与缅甸的和平进程**

China’s grand strategy and Myanmar’s peace process

  

 **4\. 塑造中等强国对外政策：加拿大与澳大利亚对外政策态度中的贸易、安全和人权框架**

Framing middle power foreign policy: trade, security, and human rights frames
in Canadian and Australian foreign policy attitudes

  

 **5\. 大国竞争及次强国的能动性：基于中国和东南亚国家关系的研究**

Great power rivalry and the agency of secondary states: a study based on
China’s relations with Southeast Asian countries

  

01

 **对中国外交现代化叙事的批判：从清朝视角重新解读19世纪60年代初清朝外交机构的变迁**

  

 **题目：** A critique of Chinese diplomatic modernization narratives:
reinterpreting shifts in Qing foreign affairs institutions in the early 1860s
from the Qing perspective

 **作者：** 早丸一真，神奈川大学外国语学院中文系。

 **摘要：**
长期以来，学者们一直试图从西欧外交范式的视角解读晚清中国外交互动制度框架的转变。然而，这种方法无法适应最初发起这些转变的清朝官僚的本土观点。本文通过对总理衙门和长江通商大臣的历史案例研究，试图了解清朝在19世纪60年代建立新的外交互动框架的动机和优先目的。文章认为，对于清朝来说，最重要的不是这些新机构的建立及其功效。恰恰相反，这些机构在清政府眼中只是“权宜之计”。作者提出，清政府在这一时期最重要的政治目的依然是如何废除这些机构，以及如何恢复旧的、理想化的朝贡体系作为其最主要的政治实践模式。

  

Scholars have long read the shifts in late Qing China’s institutional
framework for diplomatic interactions through a lens derived from the Western
European diplomatic paradigm. However, such a methodology fails to accommodate
the autochthonous perspective of the Qing bureaucrats who initiated these
shifts in the first place. Drawing upon two case studies from the 1860s, the
Zongli Yamen and the proposed Superintendent of Trade for the Yangzi, this
article attempts to understand the motivations and priorities of the Qing in
establishing new frameworks for diplomatic interactions in this period. The
article argues that, for the Qing, it was not the establishment and the
efficacy of these new institutions that was important. What mattered to them
in this period was how these new institutions could eventually be abolished
and an older, idealized form of practice reinstated in their place.

  

02

 **中国的“旅游强制政策”：动机、方法和结果**

  

 **题目：** China’s ‘Coercive Tourism’: motives, methods and consequences

 **作者：** James F Paradise，延世大学亚洲研究中心高级研究员。

 **摘要：** 本文回顾了中国以旅游制裁作为外交政策工具的 13
个实例。本文认为，这种制裁的有效性受到目标国情况的限制，包括来源市场的多样化程度，国际联盟的制约作用以及国家安全、主权和领土的考虑。这些限制对中国也很重要。本文强调，中国政府通过指示、旅行建议、授予或拒绝批准旅游目的地（Approved
Destination
Status，ADS）以及通过国有媒体传播信息的方式来影响出境旅行者。同时，消费者和网民等社会行为者也发挥了一定作用。中国这类行动的目的在于保护广义的核心利益。本文所涉及的案例包括日本、菲律宾、土耳其、台湾、韩国、梵蒂冈、帕劳、朝鲜、澳大利亚、美国，加拿大、新西兰和瑞典。本文的研究范围不包括“一带一路”国家，尽管中国正积极推动同这些国家的旅游关系。

  

This article considers 13 instances in which China has used tourist sanctions
as an instrument of its foreign policy. It finds that the effectiveness of
those sanctions has been limited by target state considerations including the
ability to diversify source markets, constraining effects of international
alliances, and national security, sovereignty and territorial considerations,
matters which are also of importance to China. The article highlights the ways
in which the Chinese government regulates outbound travelers through
directives, travel advisories, granting or denying countries Approved
Destination Status and disseminating information through the state-owned media
and indicates that social actors such as consumers and netizens play a role as
well. It also investigates the goals of China’s actions which usually have to
do with protecting core interests broadly defined. Among the cases covered are
ones involving Japan, the Philippines, Turkey, Taiwan, South Korea, the
Vatican, Palau, North Korea, Australia, the United States, Canada, New Zealand
and Sweden. Not covered are Belt and Road countries with whom China is
practicing positive forms of tourist statecraft which may be more effective.

  

03

 **中国的大战略与缅甸的和平进程**

  

 **题目：** China’s grand strategy and Myanmar’s peace process

 **作者：** Chiraag Rog，澳大利亚迪肯大学人文与社会科学学院博士。

 **摘要：**
尽管学者日益对中国抱有兴趣，但他们仍在思考如何应对中国的大国崛起，并对地缘政治格局做出悲观预测。然而，最近源于建构主义视角的分析，探讨了中国的历史、地理和文化在塑造其外交政策方面的相关性。“大战略”视角突出了中国长期以来对周边地区的关注和对和平的重视。然而，目前的学术研究对中国的周边国家是否对中国持有善意缺乏见解。因此，本文探讨了中国在缅甸的和平进程中的作用，运用“大战略”以分析缅甸不同利益相关者的50余次采访。基于数据，本文发现中国对缅甸的支持被认为是由经济驱动的，并往往以牺牲和平为代价，这意味着“大战略”的视角值得重新思考。

  

Despite growing interest in China, scholars continue to grapple with its
reemergence as a major power, offering gloomy predictions of a fraught
geopolitical landscape. More recent analyses, however, stemming from
constructivist thinking, explore the relevance of China’s history, geography,
and culture in shaping its foreign policy. Encapsulated in the grand strategy
concept, this perspective highlights China’s long-standing preoccupation with
its periphery and emphasis on peace. Problematically, current scholarship
offers little insight as to whether periphery countries also share this benign
view of China. Aimed at addressing this gap, this article explores China’s
role in Myanmar’s peace process, using ‘grand strategy’ to analyze over 50
interviews with diverse stakeholders in Myanmar. Based on the data, this
article finds that China’s support for Myanmar is perceived to be economically
driven, often at the expense of peace, implying that the historically inclined
perspective of grand strategy requires rethinking.

  

04

 **塑造中等强国对外政策：加拿大与澳大利亚对外政策态度中的贸易、安全和人权框架**

  

 **题目：** Framing middle power foreign policy: trade, security, and human
rights frames in Canadian and Australian foreign policy attitudes

 **作者：** Timothy B. Gravelle，SurveyMonkey高级经理。

 **摘要：**
由于中美之间的地缘政治与经济竞争，印太地区的中等强国面临着具有挑战性的对外政策环境。在这一背景下，哪些因素塑造了中等强国社会的对外政策态度？本文呈现了在加拿大和澳大利亚两个典型环太平洋中等强国所进行的一系列基于调查的实验结果。具有人口统计意义上代表性的两个社会的样本都会看到与美国、区域伙伴（加拿大同墨西哥、澳大利亚同印度尼西亚）以及中国双边关系中凸显不同方面的随机片段。结果表明，将以上特定关系的不同方面突出为片段的部分塑造了对于同相关国家关系的看法和偏好。因此，对外政策的态度是被框架效应所影响的。尽管如此，结果仍表明，不同双边关系与不同框架的相关性强弱各异。

  

Middle power states in the Indo-Pacific region face a challenging foreign
policy environment in light of geopolitical and economic rivalry between the
United States and China. In this context, what factors shape the foreign
policy attitudes of middle power publics? This article presents results from a
set of survey-based experiments conducted in Canada and Australia, two
archetypal middle power states located on the Pacific Rim. Demographically
representative samples of both publics were presented with randomized
vignettes highlighting facets of bilateral relations with the United States,
regional partners (Mexico in the Canadian case, and Indonesia in the
Australian case), and China. Results indicate that making different aspects of
a particular relationship salient as part of the vignette shapes perceptions
of and preferences toward relations with the state in question. Foreign policy
attitudes are thus amenable to framing effects. Still, results point to
different frames having greater relevance to different bilateral
relationships.

  

05

 **大国竞争及次强国的能动性：基于中国和东南亚国家关系的研究**

  

 **题目：** Great power rivalry and the agency of secondary states: a study based
on China’s relations with Southeast Asian countries

 **作者：** 查雯，外交学院国际关系研究所副教授。

 **摘要：**
近年来，许多观察者认为中国在东南亚的影响力不断上升。现有的研究将中国近期在该地区影响上升的原因归结为中国成功地实施了所谓“胁迫加诱导”的双重战略，或是美国对东南亚的承诺缺失。与上述研究不同的是，本文强调了东南亚国家的能动性。本文认为，大国竞争通过减少次强国的脆弱性、增加其可用的资源以及提高其存在威胁的可信度来赋予次强国权力。因此，国内议程在决定次强国的外交政策方向方面起到了主导作用。为了论述这一命题，本文仔细研究了中国与缅甸和菲律宾关系的变化态势。本文表明，尽管两国自2010-2011年以来重新调整了对中国的态度，但在2016年末，两国国内政治中出现的新议程使得两国态度向有利于中国的方向倾斜。

  

In recent years, many observers perceive ascendant Chinese influence in
Southeast Asia. Existing research attributes China’s recent advances in the
region to Beijing’s successful implementation of a dual strategy of coercion
and inducement or Washington’s lack of commitments to the region. In a
departure from the literature, this article emphasizes the agency of Southeast
Asian states. It argues that great power competition empowers the secondary
states by reducing their vulnerability, increasing available resources, and
lending credibility to their threat of exists. As a result, domestic agenda
plays a predominant role in determining a secondary state’s foreign policy
orientation. To illustrate this proposition, the changing dynamics of China’s
relations with Myanmar and the Philippines are examined closely. This article
demonstrates that although the two states had realigned away from China since
2010–11, new agendas that emerged from their domestic politics in late 2016
tipped the balance in favor of China.

  

编译 | 郑敖天 王星澳 刘培晨 闫一苇 谭伟业

审校 | 李博轩 程朵依 邵良 姚寰宇 黄慧彬

排版 | 张艺懿 彭凌懿

文章观点不代表本平台观点，本平台评译分享的文章均出于专业学习之用, 不以任何盈利为目的，内容主要呈现对原文的介绍，原文内容请通过各高校购买的数据库自行下载。

![](/images/186/4.gif)

![]()

国政学人

支持学术公益与知识传播

![赞赏二维码]() **微信扫一扫赞赏作者** __赞赏

已喜欢，[对作者说句悄悄话](javascript:;)

取消 __

#### 发送给作者

发送

最多40字，当前共字

[](javascript:;) 人赞赏

上一页 [1](javascript:;)/3 下一页

长按二维码向我转账

支持学术公益与知识传播

![赞赏二维码]()

受苹果公司新规定影响，微信 iOS 版的赞赏功能被关闭，可通过二维码转账支持公众号。

