---
title: 【新刊速递】《亚太国际关系》,Vol21,Issue2,May2021
date: 2021-07-06 19:55:00
author: 国政学人
tags: ['新刊速递']
---


收录于合集 #新刊速递 123个

![](/images/999/2.jpeg)<img src='/images/999/3.png' width='100%' /><img
src='/images/999/4.png' width='100%' /><img src='/images/999/5.png'
width='100%' /><img src='/images/999/6.png' width='100%' />

  

**期刊简介**

  

<img src='/images/999/7.png' width='100%' />

  

《亚太国际关系》（ _International Relations of the Asia-Pacific_
），简称"IRAP"，是出版在亚太区域最好的原创性文章的主流国际期刊。本刊创刊于2001年，每年在一、五、九月各发行一刊。《亚太国际关系》的创刊目的有二：其一是给读者奉献亚太国际关系领域的优质研究成果，其二是为从事亚太国际关系的学者提供专业的学术平台。根据IRAP官网显示，当前影响因子为2.324。

  

本刊着眼于：亚太区域内国际关系，亚太与世界其他区域的关系、涉及亚太国家的国际关系一般性事务与理论。本刊欢迎各类研究方法与思想学派。本刊着眼于但不仅限于：亚洲价值之争、后苏哈托时期印尼外交政策、亚太地区投资的政治经济学、日本与美英的“特殊关系”、东盟与中日美大三角、亚太区域主义的兴起、国际机制的作用、柬埔寨与东帝汶的人道主义干预、朝鲜半岛的统一问题、战区导弹防御倡议与地区回应、国家主权的变更：以亚太为例、亚洲金融危机与国际货币基金组织。

  

  

 **本期编委**

  

 **【编译】** 尤 力 黎开朗 朱文菡 晋玉

 **【审校】** 丁伟航 尤 力 阮镇炜

 **【排版】** 林祉欣 胡 蝶

 **【美编】** 臧泽华

  

![](/images/999/8.jpeg)

  

 **本期目录**

  

 **1\. “中国梦”与“一带一路”：叙事、实践与次国家行为体**

The ‘Chinese Dream’ and the ‘Belt and Road Initiative’: narratives, practices,
and sub-state actors

  

 **2\. 印度尼西亚的南南合作：规范性利益和物质利益的趋同**

Indonesia’s South-South cooperation: when normative and material interests
converged

  

 **3\. 让朝鲜重回谈判桌：金正恩朝鲜政权的不稳定基础**

Bringing North Korea to the negotiating table: unstable foundations of Kim
Jong-un’s North Korean regime

  

 **4\. 家门口的战争：台湾地区公众对必要性战争的支持研究**

When war hits home: Taiwanese public support for a war of necessity

  

 **5\. 澳大利亚，中国和以基于规则的国际海洋秩序：对比南海与帝汶海争端**

Australia, China and the maritime ‘rules-based international order’: comparing
the South China Sea and the Timor Sea disputes

  

01

 **“中国梦”与“一带一路”：叙事、实践与次国家行为体**

  

 **【题目】** The ‘Chinese Dream’ and the ‘Belt and Road Initiative’: narratives,
practices, and sub-state actors

 **【作者】** Dylan M H Loh， 南洋理工大学公共政策和全球事务部助理教授，剑桥大学博士

 **【摘要】**
“中国梦”（CD）和“一带一路倡议”（BRI）是中国国家主席签署的项目。这两个项目的大部分奖学金大多与内宣效果或对外政策影响相关。已有文献对此类项目的研究集中在作为物质表达的BRI基础设施建设和CD宣传工具。然而，这两个项目中一个重要但未被研究的因素是他们讲述的故事和这些故事的影响。在这一方面，本文补充了CD和BRI的现有研究，将项目解读为一种宏大的叙事。
**在借鉴国际实践理论的基础上，本文追溯了叙事与实践之间的明确联系，以论证叙事是如何激活、锚定、产生和对抗中国的一些次国家行为体的政治实践的。**
也就是叙述：（i）作为次国家行为体在澄清相关/不相关和适当/不适当做法指向上的要点；（ii）提供“背景”信息库，以便参与者在谈到BRI和CD时利用这些信息使其行为合法化；（iii）创造条件，既要创造新的实践，又要挑战现有的实践。本文认为可以在中国的案例中看到四个叙事实践过程：竞争、维持、激活和生产。

  

The ‘Chinese Dream’ (CD) and the ‘Belt Road Initiative’ (BRI) are signature
programs of China. Much of the scholarships on these two projects have
concerned itself with either domestic propagandistic effects or external
foreign policy impact. These concerns have underpinned the literature’s focus
on material expressions of such projects, be it through infrastructural
construction in the case of the BRI or propaganda tools in the example of the
CD. Yet, an important but understudied element of these two projects is the
narratives that they tell and the impact of these narratives. In that regard,
this article complements existing studies of the CD and the BRI by reading the
projects as grand narratives. Drawing on international practice theory, I
trace an explicit link between narratives and practices to demonstrate how
narratives activate, anchor, produces and contest political practices of some
sub-state actors in China. That is to say narratives: (i) serve as signposts
for sub-state actors’ orientations in clarifying what are relevant/irrelevant
and appropriate/inappropriate practices; (ii) provide ‘background’ stock of
information where actors draw on to legitimize their practices when they speak
of the BRI and CD; and (iii) create conditions for both the creation of new
practices and contestation of existing ones. I then argue that four narrative-
practice processes are seen in the Chinese example: contestation, sustenance,
activation, and production.

  

 **【编译】** 尤力

 **【审校】** 丁伟航

  

02

 **印度尼西亚的南南合作：规范性利益和物质利益的趋同**

  

 **【题目】** Indonesia’s South–South cooperation: when normative and material
interests converged

 **【作者】** Poppy S. Winanti ，印度尼西亚卡查玛达大学国际关系学院高级讲师；Rizky Alif Alvian
印度尼西亚卡卡查玛达大学国际关系学院讲师

 **【摘要】**
本文分析了现在发展中国家的南南合作如何以及为什么表现出规范性利益和物质利益的趋同。规范性利益的研究方法强调，南南合作是由一个国家被殖民和不发达的经历推动的。
**南南合作被认为是改变发展中国家与占主导地位的发达国家之间不对称关系的一种机制。**
物质性利益的研究方法强调南南合作对发展中大国的战略价值。通过南南合作，发展中国家希望提高自己的声誉，在国际会议上获得其他发展中国家的支持，并推行自己更广泛的经济议程。通过运用国内政治分析的方法，印度尼西亚的经验表明，对南南合作采取更务实的做法反映了其国内政治格局更广泛的转变。虽然印度尼西亚早期的南南合作实践偏好规范性利益而非物质利益，但该国目前的政策显示出其物质利益和规范性利益的趋同，这意味着“基于利益的第三世界团结”的出现。

  

This article analyzes how and why contemporary Global South countries’
South–South cooperation (SSC) exhibits a convergence between normative and
material interests. The normative approach underlines that SSC is driven by a
country’s experience with colonialism and underdevelopment. SSC is perceived
as a mechanism to alter the Global South’s asymmetrical relations with the
dominant Global North. The material approach highlights the strategic values
of SSC for Southern powers. Through SSC, Southern countries desire to improve
their reputation, garner support from other South countries in international
fora, and pursue their own broader economic agendas. By utilizing domestic
politics analysis, Indonesia’s experience shows that a more pragmatic approach
to SSC reflects a broader transformation of Indonesia’s domestic political
configuration. While Indonesia’s early practices of SSC prefer normative over
material interests, the country’s current policies display a convergence of
its material and normative interests, which signifies the emergence of
‘interest-based Third World solidarity’.

  

 **【编译】** 尤力

 **【审校】** 丁伟航

  

03

 **让朝鲜重回谈判桌：金正恩朝鲜政权的不稳定基础**

  

 **【题目】** Bringing North Korea to the negotiating table: unstable foundations
of Kim Jong-un’s North Korean regime

 **【作者】** 孙大权(Son Daekwon)，华东师范大学国际关系与地区发展研究院副教授。

 **【摘要】**
本文考察了金正恩的权力巩固与平壤在2018年突然重回去核化谈判桌之间的联系。本文认为平壤这一转变的背后存在着金氏家族统治的三个不稳定支柱：一个忠诚的执政联盟、自力更生（Juche）的意识形态、以及中国的资助。自2011年上任以来，金正恩需要削弱其父的执政联盟来加强自己的权力。随着执政联盟变得衰弱，如果民众发展成了“驱逐者”（ejectorate，译者注：指通过政变等超出现有法律框架的方式来更换领导人），那么金正恩将不能指望执政联盟有意愿去镇压民众，因此引入了市场改革来确保人民的支持。这一改革又反过来不可避免地削弱了金氏家族意识形态的吸引力，进而使得他对权力的掌控更易受到经济压力的影响。在这种情况下，中国的资助将越来越少。本文认为正是由于这三大支柱的不稳定让金正恩重新回到了谈判桌。

  

This article investigates the linkage between Kim Jong-un’s power
consolidation and Pyongyang’s abrupt return to the denuclearization
negotiation table in 2018. It argues that behind Pyongyang’s turnabout lie the
three unstable pillars of the Kim family’s rule: a faithful winning coalition,
the juche ideology, and Chinese patronage. Upon taking office in 2011, Kim had
to debilitate his father’s winning coalition to consolidate his power. With
the winning coalition enervated, Kim could not expect its willingness to
suppress the masses were they to develop into an ejectorate, and therefore
introduced market reforms to secure the people’s support. The reforms, in
return, inevitably eroded the ideological appeal of the Kim family, thereby
rendering his hold on power more vulnerable to economic pressure. Under such
circumstances, Chinese patronage increasingly faltered. It is due to the
instability of these three pillars that Kim Jong-un returned to the
negotiating table.

  

 **【编译】** 黎开朗

 **【审校】** 尤力

  

04

 **家门口的战争：台湾地区公众对必要性战争的支持研究**

  

 **【题目】** When war hits home: Taiwanese public support for war of necessity

 **【作者】** Yao-Yuan Yeh，圣托马斯大学国际问题研究中心助理教授；Charles K S Wu，普渡大学政治学系博士生

 **【摘要】**
一场会直接影响到公众生活空间的战争，是其必须进行自卫的必然性战争。然而，现有西方关于公众对战争支持的研究只关注发生在域外的选择性战争，而忽视了威胁到本土的必然性战争。因此，本文旨在检验现有研究的相关指标对必然性战争的解释力。本文将这些指标应用于潜在的海峡两岸冲突这一必然性战争情境中，以观察台湾地区公众对其可能的反应。此外，除了证明了基于现有研究的多数假设外，本文还提供了一些新发现。

  

When a war directly intrudes on citizens’ living space, it becomes a war of
necessity for the public to defend themselves. However, current literature on
public support for the war has focused exclusively on wars of choice, not of
necessity. Thus, we wonder if existing indicators of war support have
explanatory power in this context. In this article, we examine existing
indicators in a war of necessity—a cross-Strait conflict between Taiwan and
China—to study how the public in Taiwan reacts. In addition to finding support
for most of our hypotheses, the new context also contributes novel findings to
the literature.

  

 **【编译】** 朱文菡

 **【审校】** 丁伟航

  

05

 **澳大利亚，中国和以基于规则的国际海洋秩序：对比南海与帝汶海争端**  

  

 **【题目】** Australia, China and the maritime ‘rules-based international order’:
comparing the South China Sea and Timor Sea disputes

 **【作者】** Mark Beeson，西澳大利亚大学，政治学与国际关系；Andrew Chubb，兰卡斯特大学，政治、哲学与宗教。

 **【摘要】**
尽管澳大利亚和中国之间对内对外都存在系统性差异，但在对争议海域资源和管辖权的声索上两国有着惊人的相似之处。争议海域是国际政治的高风险区域，由成文的、全球公认的国际法律制度所规范，这使其成为了考察“国家对外政策”和“基于规则的国际秩序”两者关系的重要对象。对于南海，上世纪70年代的中国政府受地缘政治的强力驱使对“扩大国家的海洋管辖权范围”持支持态度，这对当下中国处理南海问题产生了重要影响。对于帝汶海，出于战略考虑，直至2016年澳大利亚才同意就此争端进入国际法律程序。而在此之前，历届澳大利亚政府都与中国政府一样，倾向于通过双边谈判来追求国家海洋利益。澳大利亚的这种转变来源于国内出现的支持东帝汶的舆论以及地理、商业情况的综合作用，而南海尚未出现这些情况。

  

Despite systemic internal and external differences, Australia and China have
shown striking similarities in their pursuit of disputed maritime resources
and jurisdictional claims. This high-stakes area of international politics is
governed by a codified, globally accepted international legal regime (the
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea), making it an important case
for examining the relationship between states’ foreign policies and the
‘rules-based international order’. In the South China Sea, Beijing is haunted
by the legacy of its strong geopolitically driven support for an expansive law
of the sea regime in the 1970s. Strategic considerations also drove
Australia’s belated embrace of international legal processes in the Timor Sea
in 2016. Before that, successive Australian governments had been as keen to
pursue national maritime interests through bilateral negotiations as their
Chinese counterparts. Australia's shift was enabled by pro-Timor domestic
public opinion and a confluence of geographic and commercial circumstances not
present in the South China Sea.

  

 **【编译】** 晋玉

 **【审校】** 阮镇炜

  

**好好学习，天天“在看”**<img src='/images/999/9.gif' width='17' height='17' />

![](/images/999/10.png)  

![]()

国政学人

支持学术公益与知识传播

![赞赏二维码]() **微信扫一扫赞赏作者** __赞赏

已喜欢，[对作者说句悄悄话](javascript:;)

取消 __

#### 发送给作者

发送

最多40字，当前共字

[](javascript:;) 人赞赏

上一页 [1](javascript:;)/3 下一页

长按二维码向我转账

支持学术公益与知识传播

![赞赏二维码]()

受苹果公司新规定影响，微信 iOS 版的赞赏功能被关闭，可通过二维码转账支持公众号。

