---
title: 【新刊速递】《国际政治经济学评论》（RIPE）,Vol.29,No.1,2022|国政学人
date: 2022-04-23 21:05:00
author: 
tags: ['新刊速递']
---


收录于合集 #新刊速递 123个

![](/images/78/2.gif)

  

**期刊简介**

  

<img src='/images/78/3.jpeg' width='100%' />

  

《国际政治经济学评论》（ _Review of International Political Economy_ ）,
创立于1994年，是一本以国际政治经济学为主要内容的同行学术评审杂志。2019-2020年的影响因子为3.610。

  

 **本期目录**

  

 **1\. 兴起的沉默多数：将“社会”带回国际政治经济学研究**

The rising invisible majority: Bringing society back into International
Political Economy

**2\. 外资主导型增长的限制：国内外公司对技能的需求**

The limits of foreign-led growth: Demand for skills by foreign and domestic
firms

**3\. 追求卓越：地位渴望、修辞陷阱和国内改革**

Striving for greatness: status aspirations, rhetorical entrapment, and
domestic reforms

**4\. 金钱万能吗？中国海外投资热潮的国际政治效应分析**

Money talks?: an analysis of the international political effect of the Chinese
overseas investment boom

**5\. 知识赋值：人力资本会计的政治经济学**

Valuing knowledge: The political economy of human capital accounting

**6\. 对税收和透明度标准的抵抗：小国对新法规的异质反应**

Resistance in tax and transparency standards: small states’ heterogenous
responses to new regulations

**7\. 媒体在塑造欧洲企业避税态度中的作用：来自爱尔兰的实验证据**

The role of the media in shaping attitudes toward corporate tax avoidance in
Europe: experimental evidence from Ireland

  

 **8\. 现状捍卫者：理解关于转移定价方法的国际话语**

Defenders of the status quo: making sense of the international discourse on
transfer pricing methodologies

  

01

 **兴起的沉默多数：将“社会”带回国际政治经济学研究**

  

 **题目：** The Rising Invisible Majority: Bringing Society Back into
International Political Economy

 **作者：** Emanuele Ferragina, 巴黎政治学院社会学系副教授；Alessandro Arrigoni,
伦敦国王学院欧洲与国际研究博士；Thees F. Spreckelsen, 英国格拉斯哥大学社会学系讲师。

 **摘要：**
本文提出了“兴起的沉默多数”这一概念，并探究政治经济处境与欧洲社会形态变迁的关联性。这一概念描绘了资本主义从福特主义到新自由主义阶段的过渡进程如何在全欧洲造成一个相似的（或许是不同节奏的）社会形态转型。“沉默多数”体现于一个伴随失业的结构性上升、劳动力市场的“危难化”（precarization）和贫困等物质基础中。而这种被忽视的“沉默性”（invisibility）使得日益增长的人群将更少参与到管理社会生活的建制体系中，而在公共领域，主流政党和工会不再充分地代表沉默群体的利益。作者认为，除非新自由主义的治理机制有所放缓或得到逆转，这一趋势将会持续进行，并最终与社会全体中大多数人息息相关。作者丰富了波兰尼“双向运动”的逻辑，并提出了反馈效应（feedback
effects）假说，即社会构成到政治经济处境的转型将会导致反向运动（countermovements）。文中展示了一个系统化的分析框架，并提供了一个对意大利的历史个案分析和一个对14个欧洲国家社会转型程度的量化分析予以补充。

  

Abstract The paper develops the concept of a rising invisible majority and
explores the interconnections between the political economy context and the
changing composition of European society. The concept illustrates how the
transition from the Fordist to the neoliberal phase of capitalism is leading
to a similar – if differently paced – transformation of the social composition
across Europe. The material basis of the ‘invisibility’ manifests itself in a
structural increase of unemployment, labour market precarization, and poverty.
‘Invisibility’ makes growing segments of the population less likely to
participate in the institutions that regulate social life, while mainstream
parties and trade unions no longer represent them adequately in the public
arena. We suggest this trend will continue, and eventually concern a majority
of the population, unless the neoliberal mechanisms of regulation are slowed
or reversed. Enriching Polanyi’s double movement logic, we hypothesise the
existence of feedback effects from this transformation of the social
composition to the political economy context that could lead to
countermovements. Our reasoning is systematised in an analytical framework,
complemented with a historical analysis of the Italian case, and a
quantitative measurement of the magnitude of this transformation across 14
European countries.

  

02

 **外资主导型增长的限制：国内外公司对技能的需求**

  

 **题目：** The limits of foreign-led growth: Demand for skills by foreign and
domestic firms

**作者：** Jan Drahokoupil，欧洲工会研究所研究部高级研究员；Brian Fabo，斯洛伐克国家银行研究部高级研究员。

 **摘要：** 本文探讨了与国内公司相比，跨国公司技能使用的问题。为此，文章评估了外国直接投资（foreign direct
investment）在技术发展中的作用，以及从跨国公司向国内公司的溢出效应的潜力。本文分析了斯洛伐克对熟练劳动力的需求，该国的特点是高度依赖外来投资。作者的框架从两个层面区分了对数字化技能的需求：职业结构和职业的技术含量。正是在后一个层面上，作者观察到了外资主导型增长的极限。通过一家主要就业门户网站提供的大量职位空缺数据，作者发现外资企业通常招聘相比国内公司要求更高技能级别的职位，但对这些职位本身的技能要求却通常低于国内公司的类似职位。外资企业只对一些与组装和零部件制造相关的蓝领岗位有着更高的技能要求。而对于白领职业来说，国内公司更有可能要求数字化技能。因此，在外资企业表现出更高的生产率和创新强度的经济中，国内公司在技能发展方面同样发挥着关键的作用。

  

This paper addresses the use of skills in multinational companies compared to
domestic firms. It thus assesses the contribution of foreign direct investment
to skill development as well as the potential for spillovers from
multinational to domestic firms. It analyzes demand for skilled labor in
Slovakia, a country that is characterized by a high degree of dependence on
inward foreign investment. Our framework distinguishes between demand for
digital skills on two levels: occupational structure; and skill content within
occupations. It is on the latter level that the limits of the foreign-led
growth can be observed. Using a large dataset on vacancies from a leading job
portal, we show that foreign-owned companies generally advertise for higher-
skilled occupations than domestic firms, but their skill requirements for
these jobs are lower than in similar jobs in domestic companies. Foreign
companies have higher skill requirements only in some blue collar jobs linked
to assembly and component manufacturing. For white collar occupations,
domestic companies are more likely to require digital skills. Domestic firms
thus have a key role in skill development also in an economy where foreign
companies exhibit higher productivity and innovation intensity.

  

03

 **追求卓越：地位渴望、修辞陷阱和国内改革**

  

 **题目：** Striving for greatness: status aspirations, rhetorical entrapment,
and domestic reforms

 **作者：** Alex Yu-Ting Lin，南加州大学政治学和国际关系博士研究生；Saori N.
Katada，南加州大学政治科学与国际关系系教授。

 **摘要：** 领导人如何利用外部事件或压力作为推动国内改革的政治杠杆？本文创设了一个愿景政治（aspirational
politics）的理论来解决这个问题。本文表明，提高一个国家的国际地位的愿景可以帮助领导人证明其优先国内政策的实施是合理的。例如，希望加入著名国际组织或协议的愿景创造了焦点叙事，改革者可以利用这些叙事来强调追赶政策的必要性，并在措辞上限制反对改革的国内行为体。本文通过2013年至2016年中国领导人对跨太平洋伙伴关系（TPP）的积极表态来说明这一机制。通过将TPP框定为提升国际地位的努力，中国领导人得以为国内经济改革辩护。与传统解释不同的是，这一过程中没有出现波折，中国也没有真正签署TPP。本文利用计算机辅助文本分析的证据，对2008-2018年（N=10189）中关于TPP的中文新闻报道进行了分析，并对上海自贸区的建立进行了过程追踪。

  

How do leaders use external events or pressures as political levers to
facilitate domestic reforms? In this article, we build a theory of
aspirational politics to address this question. We show that aspirations to
improve a country’s international status can help leaders justify the
implementation of their preferred domestic policies. For instance, the
aspiration of wanting to join prestigious international organizations or
agreements creates focal narratives that reformers can use to highlight the
need to catch up and rhetorically constrain domestic actors who oppose
reforms. We illustrate this mechanism through the Chinese leaders’
counterintuitively positive statements towards the Trans-Pacific Partnership
(TPP) from 2013 to 2016. By framing the TPP as an aspiration through which
China can enhance its international status, Chinese leaders were able to
justify domestic economic reforms. Unlike conventional explanations, this was
done without the onset of crises or actually signing the TPP. We substantiate
this claim using evidence from computer-assisted text analysis of Chinese news
coverage of the TPP from 2008-2018 (N=10189) and process- tracing of the
establishment of the Shanghai Free Trade Zone.

  

04

 **金钱万能吗？中国海外投资热潮的国际政治效应分析**

  

 **题目：** Money talks?: an analysis of the international political effect of
the Chinese overseas investment boom

 **作者：** Gongyan Yang（杨攻研），辽宁大学转型国家经济政治研究中心、国际经济政治学院教授；Tingfeng
Tang（唐廷凤），西南财经大学金融学院助理教授；Beibei Wang（王贝贝），厦门大学经济学系博士；Zhen
Qi（齐震），广州大学经济与统计学院副教授。

 **摘要：**
外国直接投资是否促进了国家之间的合作？本研究利用中国投资的新数据以及基于联合国投票数据的政治关系措施，以估计中国海外投资热潮的国际政治效应。不同于以往与“商业和平”相关的文献做出的预测，作者的研究结果表明，中国的海外投资对其与发达国家的双边关系有负面影响，而对与发展中国家双边关系的影响在统计上不显著。作者通过研究投资者和行业的所有权地位的异质性来补充其实证检验。研究结果表明，国有企业投资者和自然资源领域的投资是该效应的主要驱动因素。本文的研究结果提供了宝贵的见解，让读者得以了解经济相互依赖是否以及如何影响当今时代与一个崛起大国的政治关系。在此过程中，本文对现有文献做出了贡献，也为中国经济崛起带来的外交政策后果提供了一个更广阔的视角。

  

Does foreign direct investment increase cooperation among states? This study
uses new data on Chinese investment as well as measures of political relations
based on United Nations voting data to estimate the international political
effect of the Chinese overseas investment boom. Contrary to predictions based
on previous “commercial peace” literature, our results show that Chinese
overseas investment has a negative effect on bilateral relationships in
developed countries, and its influence on those with developing ones is
statistically insignificant. We complemented our empirical tests by
investigating the mechanisms based on the heterogeneity of ownership status of
investors and sectors. The results indicate that the effect is mainly driven
by state-owned enterprise investors and investment in natural resource
sectors. Our findings offer valuable insights into whether and how economic
interdependence affects political relations with a rising power in the current
era. In so doing, this paper contributes to the existing literature, bringing
a broader perspective to bear on the foreign policy consequences of China’s
economic rise.

  

05

 **知识赋值：人力资本会计的政治经济学**  

  

 **题目：** Valuing Knowledge: the Political Economy of Human Capital Accounting

 **作者：** David Yarrow，英国爱丁堡大学社会与政治学院国际政治经济学讲师。

 **摘要：** 本文讨论了近期将“知识价值”（value of knowledge）纳入全球经济统计范畴的尝试，刻画了兴起的“人力资本会计”（Human
Capital Accounting,
简称HCA）标准如何将用于衡量物质资本的概念运用于体现于全国人口范围的技能中，使其价值标准依赖于生命周期内劳动市场（lifetime labor
market）收入。因此，新古典资本理论的知识遗产为当代全球治理中知识价值的理解提供了一个框架，并对其产生了政治影响。通过回顾卡尔·波兰尼和近期有关政治经济学计量的文献，本文认为，这些既有研究的方法论复现了“经济学家式的缪误”，因为他们假定了教育投资的交换价值孤立于更广泛的经济、文化与社会功能是有意义的。而这些指标将政治上有争议的假定视为理所当然，反映了比较性的制度因素而非教育对人类福利的实质贡献。文中一项关于“人力资本会计”对世界银行“人力资本项目”影响的个案研究表明这些赋值方式的传播如何对那些被认为“可持续”的国家政策计划（特别是在关于福利政策未来的辩论中）产生启示，并展示了全球会计实践在塑造国家经济政策空间方面的更广泛重要性。

  

Abstract This article analyzes recent attempts to integrate the value of
knowledge into global economic statistics. It outlines how emerging human
capital accounting (HCA) standards apply concepts developed to value physical
capital goods to the skills embodied in national populations, making its value
dependent on lifetime labor market incomes. The intellectual legacy of
neoclassical capital theory thereby frames the way in which the value of
knowledge is understood in contemporary global governance in politically
consequential ways. Drawing upon Karl Polanyi and recent literature on the
political economy of measurement, it argues these methodologies reproduce the
‘economistic fallacy’, as they assume the exchange value of educational
investment can be meaningfully isolated from its broader economic, cultural
and social functions. Such metrics consequently naturalize politically
contestable assumptions, reflecting comparative institutional factors rather
than the substantive contribution of education to human welfare. A case study
of the influence of HCA on the World Bank’s Human Capital Project demonstrates
how the diffusion of these valuation methods has implications for which
national policy agendas are deemed ‘sustainable’, particularly within debates
on the future of welfare policy. This case illustrates the wider importance of
global accounting practices in constructing national economic policy space.

  

06

 **对税收和透明度标准的抵抗：小国对新法规的异质反应**

  

 **题目：** Resistance in Tax and Transparency Standards: Small States’
Heterogenous Responses to New Regulations

 **作者：** Loriana Crasnic，瑞士苏黎世大学政治学博士后研究员。

 **摘要：**
2007-2009年金融危机爆发之后，基于一项由西方国家主导的旨在消除全球逃税行为的重大税收合作倡议，离岸金融中心被要求交换银行账户信息——这种行动先是应要求交换，然后是自动交换。尽管所有主要离岸金融中心都同意新的税收标准，但关于全球税收政治的新文献对其有效性存在观点分歧。为了理解这些不同的研究结果，作者认为需要把关注点转移到目标行为体对新标准作出反应的多元方式上。作者提出了一种抵抗策略（resistance
strategies）的类型学，并展示了为什么一些国家行为体会不顾大国压力采取其中一种或另一种策略。巴哈马和巴巴多斯相应案例中的新税收协定数据以及档案和采访材料表明，政府与金融业、政府与国际组织之间的关系存在差异，这反过来又导致对不同抵抗策略的追求。最终，通过强调目标行为体对全球税收标准反应的异质性，这项研究显然对关于制度涌现和设计的文献具有重要意义。

  

In the wake of the financial crisis of 2007–2009, by means of a major Western
state-led initiative in tax cooperation designed to eliminate tax evasion in
the world, offshore financial centers were required to exchange information on
bank accounts, first on request, then automatically. Even though all major
offshore financial centers have agreed to the new tax standards, the emerging
literature on global tax politics disagrees on their effectiveness. To make
sense of these contrasting findings, I argue that we need to shift our focus
to the diverse ways that targeted actors have responded to the new standards.
I develop a typology of resistance strategies and show why state actors engage
in one or the other strategy despite pressure from great powers. New tax
treaty data, as well as archival and interview material in the matched cases
of the Bahamas and Barbados demonstrate variance in the relationships between
governments and the financial industry, and governments and international
organizations, which in turn leads to the pursuit of different resistance
strategies. Ultimately, by highlighting the heterogeneity of targeted actors’
responses to global standards, the study has important implications for the
literature on institutional emergence and design writ large.

  

07

 **媒体在塑造欧洲企业避税态度中的作用：来自爱尔兰的实验证据**

  

 **题目：** The Role of the Media in Shaping Attitudes toward Corporate Tax
Avoidance in Europe: Experimental Evidence from Ireland

**作者：** Liam Kneafsey，爱尔兰都柏林大学圣三一学院政治学助理教授；Aidan
Regan，爱尔兰都柏林大学副教授，让·莫内欧洲政治经济学卓越中心主任。

 **摘要：**
本文考察了大众媒体在塑造企业避税态度中的作用。通过对欧盟在爱尔兰对苹果公司的裁决进行的一项原创且新颖的调查实验，作者发现媒体框架在塑造公民态度方面发挥着重要作用。作者发现，质疑爱尔兰为苹果公司避税提供便利行为的道德性和公平性的对待的受访者，更有可能承认这种行为对爱尔兰的欧盟邻国的负面影响。媒体框架越具民族主义倾向，受访者就越有可能不同意欧盟对苹果公司的裁决。如果纳入意识形态、年龄、先前的投票行为和性别等控制变量，这些结果是十分可靠的。这些研究发现表明，媒体框架是支撑那些在政治上有争议的增长机制组成部分的公众支持的一个重要因素。更广泛地说，作者的研究发现表明，要理解国家的资本主义种类或增长模式的决定因素，需要考察特定国家的媒体的作用。

  

This article examines the role of the mass media in shaping attitudes toward
corporate tax avoidance. Using an original and novel survey experiment of the
European Union’s ruling against Apple in Ireland, we find that media frames
play an important role in shaping citizens attitudes. We find that respondents
exposed to treatments questioning the morality and fairness of Ireland’s
facilitation of Apple tax avoidance are more likely to acknowledge the
negative impact on Ireland’s EU neighbours. The more nationalistic the media
frame, the more likely respondents disagree with the EU ruling against Apple.
These results are largely robust to the inclusion of control variables for
ideology, age, previous voting behaviour, and gender. These findings suggest
that media frames are an important factor in shoring up popular support for
those components of growth regimes that are politically controversial. More
broadly, our findings suggest that to understand the determinants of national
varieties of capitalism - or growth models - we need to examine the role of
the country-specific media.

  

08

 **现状捍卫者：理解关于转移定价方法的国际话语**

  

 **题目：** Defenders of the status quo: making sense of the international
discourse on transfer pricing methodologies

 **作者：** Fritz Brugger，苏黎世联邦理工学院（ETH）发展与合作中心教授；Rebecca Engebretsen，牛津大学政治学博士。

 **摘要：**
超过三分之一的国际贸易发生在公司内部，而不是公司之间。这使得确定转移价格——相关公司内部和之间的交易价格——成为关键，因为它定义了公司的税单。世界各地的税务机关都遵循经合组织（OECD）的转移定价准则及其对公司的征税方法，尽管该指南有很多漏洞，而且存在替代方法和可能更简单的方法。现有的文献有助于解释为什么OECD的指导方针继续占据主导地位，但没有说明那些支持现状的人将如何捍卫它们。本文提供了一个新颖的理论框架，来解释现状的支持者——知识共同体——将如何回应挑战，并且如何使用针对政策话语和政策制定者的策略组合，以努力加强经合组织指导方针的合法性。本文使用话语网络分析来研究1995年至2018年关于简化转移定价方法的争论以及参与者的地位。本文数据证实，学界采取了一种假设的战略组合以确保经合组织指导方针和相关方法的延续性，并且削弱了替代方法的地位。

  

Over a third of international trade happens within, rather than between,
corporations. This makes establishing transfer prices – the price of
transactions within and between related corporations – pivotal, as it defines
corporations’ tax bills. Tax authorities worldwide follow the OECD transfer
pricing guidelines and its accompanying methods for taxing corporations. This
despite the guidelines’ well-documented weaknesses and even though alternative
and potentially simpler methods exist. Existing literature helps explain why
the OECD guidelines continue to dominate but not how those in favor of the
status quo will go about defending them. We offer a novel, theory-based
framework, to explain how supporters of the status quo – the epistemic
community – will respond, using a combination of strategies targeting the
policy discourse but also policy makers, in an effort to bolster the
legitimacy of the OECD guidelines. We use discourse network analysis to study
the debate on simplified transfer pricing methods from 1995 to 2018 and the
positions of actors engaged. Our data confirms that the epistemic community
deploys a hypothesized mix of strategies to ensure the durability of the OECD
guidelines and accompanying methods, at the same time undermining the position
of alternative approaches.

  

  

编译 | 陈勇 陈思涵 赖永祯 姚博闻

审校 | 何伊楠 董诗

排版 | 何婕 杨凌晶

文章观点不代表本平台观点，本平台评译分享的文章均出于专业学习之用, 不以任何盈利为目的，内容主要呈现对原文的介绍，原文内容请通过各高校购买的数据库自行下载。

![](/images/78/4.gif)

