---
title: 【新刊速递】第45期|InternationalSecurity,Volume45,No.1
date: 2020-08-17 20:00:00
author: 国政学人
tags: ['新刊速递']
---


收录于合集 #新刊速递 123个

![](/images/1916/2.jpeg)<img src='/images/1916/3.png' width='100%' /><img
src='/images/1916/4.png' width='100%' /><img src='/images/1916/5.png'
width='100%' /><img src='/images/1916/6.png' width='100%' />

  

**期刊简介**

<img src='/images/1916/7.png' width='100%' />

《国际安全》（International
Security）是经过国际和国家安全领域同行评议的顶级学术期刊，其刊发的论文主题广泛，涵盖战争与和平等传统安全问题与环境、人口、人道主义、恐怖主义等时新的安全议题。它成立于1976年，由哈佛大学贝尔弗科学与国际事务中心（Belfer
Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard
University）编辑，麻省理工学院出版社（MIT
Press）出版，每年四期。2019年影响力因子为5.432，在“国际关系”类别的95种期刊中排名第1位。

  

 **本期编委**

 **【编译】** 卫艺璇 黄慧彬 徐一凡 阮辰阳 杨沛鑫

 **【审校】** 李博轩 王国欣 伍雨荷 姚寰宇

 **【排版】** 高佳美

![](/images/1916/8.jpeg)

  

 **本期目录**

 **1.正常化的其他手段：朝核危机中的技术基础设施与政治承诺**

Normalization by Other Means: Technological Infrastructure and Political
Commitment in the North Korean Nuclear Crisis

 **2.** **欺骗者困境：伊拉克、大规模杀伤性武器和战争之路**

Cheater’s Dilemma: Iraq, Weapons of Mass Destruction, and the Path to War

 **3.** **伙伴关系还是弱肉强食？崛起国如何应对衰落国**

Partnership or Predation? How Rising States Contend with Declining Great
Powers

 **4\. 萨达特与通往耶路撒冷之路：寻求和平过程中的大胆姿态和风险接受**

Sadat and the Road to Jerusalem: Bold Gestures and Risk Acceptance in the
Search for Peace

 **5\. 新时代的中国大战略：再保证、改革与抵制**

China's Grand Strategy under Xi Jinping: Reassurance, Reform, and Resistance

  

 **01**

 **正常化的其他手段：朝核危机中的技术基础设施与政治承诺**

 **【题目】** Normalization by Other Means: Technological Infrastructure and
Political Commitment in the North Korean Nuclear Crisis

 **【作者】** Christopher Lawrence，乔治城大学埃德蒙·A·沃尔什外交服务学院助理教授。

 **【摘要】**
1994年签订的《朝美核框架协议》要求朝鲜拆除其钚反应堆，以换取民用轻水反应堆（LWRs）和与美国实现关系正常化的承诺。该协定暂时推回了朝鲜的核计划，但随后伴随着轻水反应堆计划推进迟缓，朝鲜再度重启秘密铀浓缩。如今学者普遍将此次朝美核框架协议视为美国对朝“胡萝卜加大棒”政策中的“胡萝卜”，但这种叙事完全忽视了朝美关系正常化在政治信誉上的挑战和在朝鲜建设轻水反应堆的技术难度。政治-
技术结合的分析框架能更好地揭示轻水反应堆项目如何帮助提高此框架协定的政治信誉。轻水反应堆项目代表着美朝接触战略的突破，美国释放了两国关系正常化的信号。但随后美国为了削减成本将轻水反应堆项目建设推给了盟友，这就大大减弱了美国释放的信号。处理核扩散危机的真正挑战并不在于诱导或迫使对象国放弃核武器，而在于长期维持关系正常化这一政治承诺可信度，以真正推进弃核。

  

The 1994 Agreed Framework called for North Korea to dismantle its plutonium-
production complex in exchange for civilian light water reactors (LWRs) and
the promise of political normalization with the United States. The accord
succeeded at rolling back North Korea's nuclear program, but the regime
secretly began enriching uranium when the LWR project fell behind schedule.
Today, scholars look back at the Agreed Framework as a U.S. offer of “carrots”
to bribe the regime, but this framing overlooks the credibility challenges of
normalization and the distinctive technical challenges of building LWRs in
North Korea. A combination of political and technical analysis reveals how the
LWR project helped build credibility for the political changes promised in the
Agreed Framework. Under this interpretation, the LWR project created a
platform for important breakthroughs in U.S.-North Korean engagement by
signaling a U.S. commitment to normalization, but its signaling function was
undercut when the United States displaced the costs of LWR construction to its
allies. The real challenge of proliferation crisis diplomacy is not to bribe
or coerce target states into giving up nuclear weapons, but to credibly signal
a U.S. commitment to the long-term political changes needed to make
denuclearization possible.

  

 **【编译】** 卫艺璇

 **【审校】** 李博轩

  

 **02**

 **欺骗者困境：伊拉克、大规模杀伤性武器和战争之路**

 **【题目】** ：Cheater’s Dilemma: Iraq, Weapons of Mass Destruction, and the Path
to War

 **【作者】** Målfrid Braut-Hegghammer（奥斯陆大学）

 **【摘要】** 从1991年海湾战争到2003年美国主导入侵伊拉克的这一段时期，伊拉克政权面临着“欺骗者困境 ”（ cheater’s
dilemma）：伊拉克到底应该将其大规模杀伤性武器（WMD）的能力向世人揭示到何种程度？过多的揭示不会获得回报，而持续的否认则会阻碍制裁的解除。伊拉克的领导层致力于解决这一困境，尤其当伊拉克的上层精英们奉行相互竞争的政策，而下属也并没有始终如一地服从萨达姆•侯赛因（Saddam
Hussein）的命令的时候。这些困难同样也反映出了委托-代理（principal-
agent）的问题，这一问题由于领导层最初试图否认和掩盖伊拉克的大规模毁灭性武器能力而变得更加严重。总之，“欺骗者困境”和委托-
代理问题为伊拉克给外部世界带来的一系列令人困惑的模糊性行为提供了解释。此外，关于威权政体如何应对要求它们解除大规模杀伤性武器能力的外部压力，以及威权政体愿意并能够在何种程度上揭露之前的项目和过去为了掩盖信息而做出的努力等问题，本文也针对其激励和限制因素提出了见解。

  

Between the 1991 Gulf War and the U.S.-led invasion in 2003, the Iraqi regime
faced a cheater’s dilemma: how much should it reveal of Iraq’s weapons of mass
destruction (WMD) capabilities when each additional revelation made it less
likely that the country would be rewarded, while continued denial also
prevented the lifting of sanctions. The Iraqi leadership struggled to resolve
this dilemma, as elites pursued competing policies and subordinates did not
consistently obey Saddam Hussein’s orders. These difficulties reflected
principal-agent problems that were aggravated by the leadership’s initial
attempts to deny and cover up Iraq’s WMD capabilities. Together, the cheater’s
dilemma and principal-agent problems explain a range of puzzling Iraqi
behaviors that came across as calculated ambiguity to the outside world. These
findings offer insights into the incentives and constraints that shape how
other authoritarian regimes respond to external pressures to eliminate their
WMD, and the extent to which they are willing and able to disclose information
about past programs and their past efforts to conceal this information from
the outside world.

  

 **【编译】** 黄慧彬

 **【审校】** 王国欣

  

 **03**

 **伙伴关系还是弱肉强食？崛起国如何应对衰落国**

 **【题目】** Partnership or Predation? How Rising States Contend with Declining
Great Powers

 **【作者】** Joshua R. Itzkowitz Shifrinson，波士顿大学弗雷德里克·帕迪全球研究学院助理教授。

【 **摘要**
】绝大多数国际关系学者认为崛起国会对衰落国构成威胁和挑战。然而，在实践中，崛起国也可能支持衰落国并与其合作。应当如何解释崛起国的政策选择？崛起国何时会对衰落国采取支持或“掠夺”战略，这些战略又为何因时间空间而异？崛起国的政策选择取决于其更广泛的战略考量。在其他条件相同的情况下，当崛起国能够利用衰落国抵消来自其他大国的安全威胁时，崛起国大体上会选择支持衰落国。反之，当无法利用衰落国抵消此种挑战时，崛起国就更有可能采取“掠夺”战略。崛起国支持或“掠夺”的强硬程度取决于衰落国的军事姿态：衰落国军事上的表现越强势，崛起国的战略就会越温和。本文审视了1945年后英国相对衰落背景下美苏的战略，以及冷战末期苏联相对衰落背景下美国的战略，藉此论证相较于经济相互依存、意识形态等观点，本文的主张更具解释力。

  

International relations scholarship overwhelmingly expects that relatively
rising states will threaten and challenge declining great powers. In practice,
however, rising states can also cooperate with and support declining powers.
What explains the rising state's choice of policy? When do rising states
support or prey on declining great powers, and why do such strategies vary
across time and space? The answer depends on the rising state's broader
strategic calculations. All things being equal, a rising state will generally
support a declining power when the latter can be used to offset threats from
other great powers that can harm the rising state's security. Conversely, when
using a declining state to offset such challenges is not a plausible option,
the rising state is likely to pursue a predation strategy. The level of
assertiveness of support or predation, meanwhile, depends on the declining
power's military posture: the stronger the declining state is militarily, the
less assertive the rising state tends to be. A review of the strategies
adopted by two relatively rising powers, the United States and the Soviet
Union, toward a declining Great Britain after 1945, and of a rising United
States vis-à-vis a declining Soviet Union in the late Cold War, illustrates
how this argument outperforms explanations that focus instead on the
importance of economic interdependence and ideology.

  

 **【编译】** 徐一凡

 **【审校】** 伍雨荷

  

 **04**

 **萨达特与通往耶路撒冷之路：寻求和平过程中的大胆姿态和风险接受**

 **【题目】** Sadat and the Road to Jerusalem: Bold Gestures and Risk Acceptance
in the Search for Peace

 **【作者】** Shahin Berenji（加利福尼亚大学洛杉矶分校）

 **【摘要】**
1977年11月19日，世界以难以置信的目光注视着时任埃及总统穆罕默德·安瓦尔·萨达特拜访耶路撒冷。萨达特极富戏剧性地会见了以色列领导层，保证双方“不再有战争发生”，并给予以色列事实上的承认。最近的解密档案给我们提供了新的洞见，解释了萨达特为何突然做出如此大的让步，以及为何通过如此大胆的举动开启和解进程。历史证据印证了萨达特风险接受的一种前景理论解释。萨达特从未接受埃及丢失西奈半岛的事实，然而由于无法通过军事或外交手段收回领土（外交手段如美方调停），他开始愿意为收回领土承担更多风险。当萨达特对吉米·卡特政府重新召开日内瓦中东和平会议的努力感到失望后，他寻求通过与以色列的直接谈判而非多边外交方式来加速和平进程。尽管如此，他认识到双边谈话很可能因以色列的深度怀疑以及其阿拉伯邻居不信任以色列而失败。为了打消以色列的恐惧心理和对安全的顾虑，萨达特向对方解释称他可以通过释放埃及的良好意图来减少以色列的疑虑，并可以移除阿以冲突的“心理障碍”（他经常将这一观点放在嘴边）。这样一种方式使以色列感到足够安全，致使其领导层考虑以土地换和平。

  

On November 19, 1977, the world watched in disbelief as Egyptian President
Anwar el-Sadat visited Jerusalem. In one dramatic stroke, Sadat met with
Israel’s leaders, promised “no more war,” and offered Israel de facto
recognition. Recently declassified archival sources provide new insight into
why Sadat suddenly made all these concessions and why he chose to initiate
conciliation through such a bold move. The historical evidence supports a
prospect theoretic explanation of Sadat’s risk acceptance. Sadat never
accepted Egypt’s loss of the Sinai Peninsula but, unable to recover it either
militarily or diplomatically (through U.S. mediation), he became willing to
accept greater risks to recoup Egypt’s territorial losses. As Sadat grew
frustrated with the efforts of Jimmy Carter’s administration to reconvene the
Geneva Middle East Peace Conference, he sought to accelerate the peace process
by abandoning multilateral diplomacy in favor of direct negotiations with
Israel. He understood, however, that bilateral talks would fail given Israel’s
deep suspicion and mistrust of its Arab neighbors. By empathetically
responding to its fears and security concerns, Sadat reasoned that he could
reassure Israel of Egypt’s benign intentions and remove, as he often said, the
“psychological barriers” of the Arab-Israeli conflict. Such an approach might
help Israel feel secure enough so that its leaders would trade land for peace.

  

 **【编译】** 阮辰阳

 **【审校】** 王国欣

  

 **05**

 **新时代的中国大战略：再保证、改革与抵制**

 **【题目】** ：China's Grand Strategy under Xi Jinping: Reassurance, Reform, and
Resistance

 **【作者】** ：Avery Goldstein（宾夕法尼亚大学）

 **【摘要】**
新时代的中国大战略很有特点：一方面，它在一定程度上继承了自二十世纪九十年代所定下的战略传统，致力于实现中华民族伟大复兴的中国梦；另一方面，针对新时期的时代变化，中国又对这一战略进行了三个方面的补充。1992年的“中华民族伟大复兴”战略更多延循了邓小平提出的“韬光养晦”的方针，而在1996年时，中国领导人提出了和平崛起的发展道路，保证中国的发展不会对其他国家造成威胁；2012年，中国领导人将这一战略描述为“中国梦”，并提出了三个方面的要求：（1）继续向其他国家承诺，中国的和平崛起是双赢的；（2）不再空喊口号，而是采取实际行动对现有的国际秩序进行调整与改革，以促进中国的发展；（3）针对中国核心利益的潜在威胁进行制衡。中国在周边外交方面做出的新改变进一步阐明了中国在长期的战略雄心，但与此同时也引发了关于中国战略目标的相关讨论和疑虑。

  

China's grand strategy under Xi Jinping is clearly distinctive. It does not,
however, fundamentally break with the grand strategy that China has embraced
since the early 1990s—one that aims to realize what is now labeled “the dream
of national rejuvenation.” Leaders in Beijing have implemented three different
approaches to this strategy. In 1992, the approach to rejuvenation followed
Deng Xiaoping's admonition for China to hide its capabilities and bide its
time. In 1996, Beijing shifted to a more proactive approach, peaceful rise,
seeking to reassure others that a stronger and wealthier China would not pose
a threat. In 2012, Xi again recast the grand strategy of rejuvenation to
realize the Chinese dream. His approach is distinguished by its combination of
three efforts: (1) continuing earlier attempts to reassure others about the
benign intentions of rising China, (2) moving China from rhetoric to action in
promoting reform of an international order that has facilitated China's rise,
and (3) resisting challenges to what the Chinese Communist Party defines as
the country's core interests. Xi's bolder approach has further clarified
China's long-standing international aspirations and triggered reactions abroad
that raise doubts about the prospects for his approach to realizing the goal
of national rejuvenation.

  

 **【编译】** 杨沛鑫

 **【审校】** 姚寰宇

  

文章观点不代表本平台观点，本平台评译分享的文章均出于专业学习之用, 不以任何盈利为目的，内容主要呈现对原文的介绍，原文内容请通过各高校购买的数据库自行下载

 **  
**

 **  
**

 **  
**

 **添加 “国小政”微信**

 **获取最新资讯**

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
![](/images/1916/9.jpeg)  
  
  
  
  
![](/images/1916/10.gif) <img src='/images/1916/11.gif' width='100%' />

![]()

国政学人

支持学术公益与知识传播

![赞赏二维码]() **微信扫一扫赞赏作者** __赞赏

已喜欢，[对作者说句悄悄话](javascript:;)

取消 __

#### 发送给作者

发送

最多40字，当前共字

[](javascript:;) 人赞赏

上一页 [1](javascript:;)/3 下一页

长按二维码向我转账

支持学术公益与知识传播

![赞赏二维码]()

受苹果公司新规定影响，微信 iOS 版的赞赏功能被关闭，可通过二维码转账支持公众号。

