---
title: 【新刊速递】《和平研究杂志》（JPR）,Vol.59,No.1,2022|国政学人
date: 2022-04-18 20:55:00
author: 
tags: ['新刊速递']
---


收录于合集 #新刊速递 123个

![](/images/89/2.gif)

  

**期刊简介**

  

<img src='/images/89/3.png' width='100%' />

  

《和平研究杂志》（ _Journal of Peace Research_
）是一份关于全球冲突和维护和平的跨学科双月刊，由奥斯陆和平研究所负责。该期刊除了涉及和平相关的概念以外，还会关注暴力的根源以及冲突的解决方法。根据Journal
Citation Reports的数据，2021年该期刊的影响因子为4.054。

  

**本期目录**

  

 **1\. 灾难外交：灾难与冲突之间的复杂联系**

Disaster diplomacy: The intricate links between disaster and conflict

**2\. 灾难与国家间对抗的动态**

Disasters and the dynamics of interstate rivalry

**3\. 自然灾难何时促成内战走向和谈？**

When do natural disasters lead to negotiations in a civil war?

**4\. 灾难和平民受害：探索非洲1997年至2017年的动态效果**

Disasters and civilian victimization: Exploring the dynamic effect in Africa,
1997–2017

**5\. 灾难和撒哈拉以南非洲的群体间和平**

Disasters and intergroup peace in sub-Saharan Africa

**6\. 压制窗口：利用新冠疫情应对持不同政见者？**

Windows of repression: Using COVID-19 policies against political dissidents?

**7\. 新冠病毒、国家治理能力和非国家行为体的政治暴力**

COVID-19, state capacity, and political violence by non-state actors

  

01

 **灾难外交：灾难与冲突之间的复杂联系**

  

 **题目：** Disaster diplomacy: The intricate links between disaster and conflict

 **作者：** Gina Yannitell Reinhardt，埃塞克斯大学讲师；Carmela Lutmar，美利坚大学教授。

 **摘要：**
新冠肺炎疫情使全世界关注灾难管理中的固有困难。跨学科研究的学者们不得不考虑灾难对国家间关系、国家韧性、暴力和敌对模式的影响，以及造成冲突的脆弱性。本期特刊通过三维的理论框架，提供了新的见解，有助于厘清灾难、冲突与合作之间的关系。首先，本期的所有文章都以统一将灾难理解为内生的社会现象为基础。其次，本期文章认为灾难的发生是一个过程，而非离散的事件。最后，本期分析了灾难和冲突是由一系列共同因素决定的可能性。之所以选择本期的这些文章，不仅是因为其推动了关于灾难—冲突关系的学术思考，而且还是因为其有可能推进这一研究方向对全球冲突和灾难状况的实际性影响。本期特刊有助于进一步深化关于冲突对灾难的影响以及灾难周期过程与暴力、敌对模式之间的关系的研究，并强调采取这一倡议的框架对于政策制定与数据收集的影响。

  

The COVID-19 pandemic has drawn worldwide attention to the difficulties
inherent in managing disasters. Scholars across disciplines have been forced
to consider the impact disasters have on interstate relations, state
resilience, patterns of violence and hostility, and the vulnerabilities that
condition conflict. This special issue offers new insights to help disentangle
the relationship between disasters, conflict, and cooperation, by adhering to
a three-pronged theoretical framework. First, all pieces in this issue are
underpinned by a unified understanding of disasters as endogenous social
phenomena. Second, we acknowledge that disasters occur as processes rather
than discrete events. Finally, we explore the possibility that disasters and
conflict are co-determined by a common set of factors. The articles herein
were chosen not only because they advance academic thought about the
disaster–conflict nexus, but also because of their potential to advance the
practical impact of this line of research on the global conflict and disaster
landscape. We highlight the relevance of this special issue for further work
investigating the effects of conflict on disasters and the relationship
between the hazards cycle process and patterns of violence and hostility, as
well as the implications of adopting this suggested framework for policymaking
and data collection.

  

02

 **灾难与国家间对抗的动态**

  

 **题目：** Disasters and the dynamics of interstate rivalry

**作者：** Bomi K Lee，肯塔基大学政治学系博士后；Sara McLaughlin Mitchell，爱荷华大学政治学系教授；Cody J
Schmidt，爱荷华大学国际关系和政治方法专业博士生；Yufan Yang，爱荷华大学政治学博士生。

 **摘要：**
本文探讨了灾难如何影响国家间对抗中的冲突动态。基于对灾难、对抗和转移注意力的冲突文献的见解，作者认为，灾难作为一种政治冲击，扰乱了对抗关系。对抗中的敌意水平是稳定的，只有在经历重大冲击时才会发生变化。虽然对抗相关的文献表明，一些冲击可能导致和平，但作者认为，灾难冲击更有可能导致冲突增加。灾难往往会给国家提供安全保障的能力带来压力，而未能做好准备或应对的领导人可能会面临国内成本（的上升）。为了避免下台，领导人将会采取更具有攻击性的外交政策，以转移公众对灾难应对不力的注意力。作者假设，当两个国家经历快速爆发的灾难时，军事化争端之间的时间会缩短。然而，转移冲突的条件取决于国内动乱的程度和国家间对抗的数量，灾难转移冲突最经常发生在具有重大内部冲突和多重对抗的对抗双方中。1900年至2010年的持续期模型（Duration
model）分析为该理论提供了强有力的支持，并突出了对抗环境下灾难外交的局限性。考虑到全球灾难发生的频率和严重程度的增加，研究结果表明，环境冲击可能会增加冲突频发地区的国家间敌对行动。

  

This article examines how disasters influence conflict dynamics in interstate
rivalries. Building on insights from the disaster, rivalry, and diversionary
conflict literatures, the authors argue that disasters act as political shocks
that disrupt a rivalry relationship. Hostility levels in rivalries are stable
over time and shift only through major shocks. While the rivalry literature
suggests that some shocks may lead to peace, the authors argue that disaster
shocks are more likely to be associated with increased conflict. Disasters
often strain the state’s capacity to provide security for its people, while
leaders who fail to prepare or respond can face domestic costs. To avoid
potential removal from office, leaders have incentives to divert the public’s
attention away from poor disaster response by adopting a more aggressive
foreign policy. The authors hypothesize that the time between militarized
disputes is shortened when pairs of states experience rapid onset disasters.
However, the conditions for diversionary conflict depend on the degree of
intrastate turmoil and the number of interstate rivalries, with disaster
diversionary conflict happening most frequently in rivalry dyads with
significant internal strife and multiple rivalries. Duration model analyses
from 1900 to 2010 provide strong support for the theory and highlight the
limits of disaster diplomacy in rivalry contexts. Given the increased
frequency and severity of disasters globally, the findings suggest that
environmental shocks are likely to increase interstate hostilities in
conflict-prone regions.

  

03

 **自然灾难何时促成内战走向和谈？**

  

 **题目：** When do natural disasters lead to negotiations in a civil war?

 **作者：** Stephen Nemeth，俄克拉荷马州立大学政治学系副教授；Brian Lai，爱荷华大学政治学系副教授。

 **摘要：**
自然灾难对结束内战的影响很少受到学界关注。本文认为，自然灾难能否推动冲突走向和谈取决于灾难的受害者是谁。根据讨价还价模型，本文认为，灾难提高了冲突双方的作战成本，并由此改变了叛军和政府的作战能力。在这种情况下，当自然灾难的打击使冲突双方都预期战争在短期内不会结束时，高昂的战争成本可能会促使叛军和政府进行和谈。而当自然灾难仅对一方造成了影响时，灾难便往往不会过分改变冲突双方对当前战情和作战成本的判断：未受影响的一方可能会将这一灾难视作战胜对手的一次战机，而受灾难影响一方可能会不甘认输，仅将这场灾难视为可作休整的一次暂时失利。本文以1980年至2005年间所有涉及领土争端的内战为研究案例，对这些冲突爆发期间的自然灾难进行了更为精确的定位，以此对上述假设进行评估。本文发现，当双方都遭受了自然灾难的冲击时，双方进行和谈的可能性便会不断增加。当只有一方受到影响时，自然灾难对和谈的影响在不同的模型设定中并不一致。

  

The effect of natural disasters on the end of civil wars has received little
attention from scholars. We argue that the effect of disasters on conflict
negotiation is dependent on which combatant is victimized by disaster. Drawing
on a bargaining model, we argue that disasters create costs that alter the
capabilities of the rebels and government. In order for these changes to lead
to negotiations, the effects of a disaster have to lead to the mutual
expectation that military victory is unlikely in the short term. When both
sides are hit by a natural disaster, this mutual expectation is likely to form
because both sides face significant costs to engaging in conflict in the short
term. When one side is impacted, the non-affected side is likely to see an
opportunity to gain against its rival while the side facing the devastation of
a natural disaster may see only a temporary setback that it can recover from.
This may lead both sides to not update their beliefs about the costs of war,
or their chances of victory. We evaluate these hypotheses by examining all
territorial civil wars from 1980 to 2005 using a more precise measure of
disaster location. We find that when both sides are hit by a disaster, the
likelihood of negotiation consistently increases. When only one side is
impacted, the effect on negotiations is not consistent across model
specifications.

  

04

 **灾难和平民受害：探索非洲1997年至2017年的动态效果**

  

 **题目：** Disasters and civilian victimization: Exploring the dynamic effect in
Africa, 1997–2017

 **作者：** Roos Haer, 莱顿大学政治科学系助理教授；Babak RezaeeDaryakenari，莱顿大学国际关系助理教授。

 **摘要：**
自然灾难如何影响非国家行为体对待平民的方式？一方面，冲突研究的文献认为不利的冲击会影响反叛组织与政府之间的战略互动，可能会提高针对平民的暴力程度。另一方面，关于自然灾难的社会学研究认为灾难提升了社会融合与合作，因此有望降低暴力行为的风险。本文认为针对平民的暴力动态在灾难发生的短期内和长期内是不同的。自然灾难短期内会导致反叛组织减少针对平民的暴力行为。然而，随着时间的推移，这种暂时改善的社会融合开始下降，平民受害的程度开始上升。为了研究这种潜在的短期动态，本文结合了关于片面暴力的地理参考信息和灾难数据。研究结果证实了预期的动态效应。本文对于我们理解灾难如何影响平民、反叛组织和政府三方的关系具有重大意义。

  

How do natural disasters affect the treatment of civilians by non-state
actors? On the one hand, conflict literature argues that adverse shocks
influence the strategic interplay between rebel groups and the government,
potentially increasing the level of violence against civilians. On the other
hand, sociological research on natural disasters argues that they increase
social integration and cooperation and are thus expected to reduce the risk of
violent behaviour. In this study, we contend that the dynamics of violence
against civilians are different in the short term and long term after a
disaster strikes. We argue that natural disasters lead to a decrease in
violence against civilians perpetrated by rebel groups in the short run.
However, over time this temporary improvement in social integration starts to
decline, increasing the level of civilian victimization. To examine this
potential temporal dynamic, we combine georeferenced information on one-sided
violence (Armed Conflict Location & Event Data; ACLED) and data on disasters
(Emergency Event Database; EM-DAT). Our results confirm the expected dynamic
effects. This research has important implications for our understanding of how
disasters can influence the relationship between civilians, rebel groups, and
governments.

  

05

 **灾难和撒哈拉以南非洲的群体间和平**  

  

 **题目：** Disasters and intergroup peace in sub-Saharan Africa

 **作者：** Eunbin Chung，犹他州立大学政治科学系助理教授；Inbok Rhee，韩国发展研究院公共政策与管理学院助理教授。

 **摘要：**
灾难如何影响群体间的和平与冲突？已有的研究显示，灾难对我们如何看待他人的影响是矛盾的：在某些情况下，它们可能加剧现有的紧张局势，而在其他情况下却成为和平与合作的催化剂。然而，我们对产生预期的这两种结果的条件知之甚少。本文评估了灾难对外部群体的看法的影响。文章将大规模灾难的数据集与2014年至2015年期间“非洲晴雨表”第6轮调查中数万份个体层次的调查数据结合起来。通过使用双重差分模型，分析灾难的发生在空间和时间上的接近性，评估灾难影响公众对外部群体的观念的程度。由于灾难对访谈日期或受访者的位置来说都是外生的，本文的方法可以更好地检验灾难带来的冲击如何影响公众的认知。此外，文章通过考虑灾难对外部群体身份的政治显著性差异，和对群体动态短期与长期影响的差异，展示出这种影响的多样性。文章最后讨论了本文的发现对理解过去灾难的后果，和未来的灾难如何影响群体间和平和冲突的意义。

  

How do disasters affect intergroup peace and conflict? Existing research shows
that disasters can have opposing effects on how we perceive others: they can
exacerbate existing tension in some cases or serve as catalysts for peace and
cooperation in others. Yet we know little about the conditions under which we
should expect one or the other. In this study, we estimate the impact of
disasters on perceptions of out-groups. We combine a dataset of mass disasters
with tens of thousands of individual-level survey responses recorded in Round
6 of the Afrobarometer data between 2014 and 2015. Using a difference-in-
differences approach exploiting spatial and temporal proximity to disaster
occurrences, we estimate the degree to which disasters affect public opinion
toward out-groups. As disaster occurrence is plausibly exogenous to interview
dates or respondent locations, our approach allows for an improved test of how
the shock from disaster can impact public perceptions. Moreover, we show such
impact varies by considering the differences in political salience of out-
group identities and short- versus long-term differences in the impact on
group dynamics. The implications of our findings for understanding the
aftermath of past disasters and effects of future disasters on intergroup
peace and conflict are discussed.

  

06

 **压制窗口：利用新冠疫情应对持不同政见者？**

  

 **题目：** Windows of repression: Using COVID-19 policies against political
dissidents?  

 **作者：** Joan Barceló，纽约大学阿布扎比分校政治学助理教授；Robert Kubinec，纽约大学阿布扎比分校政治学助理教授；Cindy
Cheng，慕尼黑工业大学巴伐利亚公共政策学院博士后研究员；Tiril Høye Rahn，牛津大学国际关系专业硕士研究生；Luca
Messerschmidt，慕尼黑工业大学国际关系博士候选人。

 **摘要：**
如何解释政府为应对新冠疫情而制定的政策在采取、时机和持续时间上存在巨大差异？本文探讨了政府压制国内持不同政见者的动机是否会影响其对新冠疫情的反应。根据观察，本文认为，新冠疫情的管制政策等同于滥用权力的政府用来限制国内异议的政策，即限制公民行动自由的政策。这为滥用权力的政府创造了一个机会，使其可以在不抵消公民和国际社会压力的情况下采取压制行动。按照这一逻辑，本文预期滥用权力的政府更有可能采取限制性政策，在应对疫情的过程中会更早地采取这些政策，并需要更长时间来放松限制。从经验上看，本文发现，最近对平民实施过国家暴力或侵犯公民人权的政府制定封锁和宵禁政策的可能性要高出约10%。与压制程度较低的国家相比，这些政策在疫情中大约提前48天实施，并多维持了约23天。总的来说，本文的研究结果有助于理解国家机构的压制性如何影响其对全球卫生危机的政策反应。

  

What explains the great variation in the adoption, timing, and duration of
government policies made in response to the COVID-19 pandemic? In this
article, we explore whether government incentives to repress domestic
dissidents influence their responses to the COVID-19 pandemic. We argue that
COVID-19 containment policies are observationally equivalent to those that
abusive governments use to limit domestic dissent – that is, policies that
restrict citizens’ freedom of movement. This creates an opportunity for
abusive governments to engage in repressive behavior without countervailing
pressure from citizens and the international community. Following this logic,
we expect abusive governments to be more likely to adopt restrictive policies,
adopt them earlier in the course of the pandemic, and take longer to relax
restrictions. Empirically, we find that governments that have recently engaged
in state violence against civilians or abused citizens’ human rights were
about 10% more likely to enact lockdown and curfew policies. Compared to less
repressive countries, these policies were implemented approximately 48 days
earlier in the pandemic and kept in place for approximately 23 days longer.
Overall, our results advance our understanding of how the repressiveness of
state institutions can shape policy responses to a global health crisis.

  

07

 **新冠病毒、国家治理能力和非国家行为体的政治暴力**

  

 **题目：** COVID-19, state capacity, and political violence by non-state actors

**作者：** Britt Koehnlein，印第安纳大学布卢明顿分校研究生；Ore Koren，印第安纳大学布卢明顿分校的政治学助理教授。

 **摘要：**
新冠病毒大流行限制了世界各国治理和控制其领土的能力。国家减少其活动，为支持和反对国家的非国家暴力行为体提供了填补的空间。为了突出这一趋势，本研究更广泛地评估了新冠病毒和大流行对非国家行为体发动的攻击的影响。本文强调，随着疾病的传播，国家为留存其他方面所需的资源而取消治理活动，叛军和亲政府的非国家行为体（PNGs）都有动机增加攻击频率。在第一种情况下，本文强调了大流行如何允许叛军减少与军队有关的权力不对称，并将自己建立为一个可行的政府替代方案。在第二种情况下，亲政府的非国家行为体提供了军队以外的替代选择，它们被部署到这些有争议的区域，以在大流行期间挫败或预防叛乱。利用2020年1月1日至2020年6月15日期间127个国家武装冲突和新冠病毒病例年度变化的日数据，我们使用计量经济识别策略对这两种说法进行了检验。我们没有找到明确的证据表明，新冠疫情导致叛乱分子袭击的频率更高，即这些组织更愿意使用非暴力手段来巩固自己的地位，或避免战斗并保护自己的资源。相反，我们发现，与去年相比，随着新冠病毒的流行，亲政府的非国家行为体攻击的频率有所增加。阿富汗和尼日利亚的叛乱分子和爱国阵线活动的案例研究为这些结果提供了额外的支持，说明了一些基本机制。我们的研究结果探讨了大流行和其他灾难对缓解冲突所构成的被忽视的挑战，以及亲政府的非国家行为体在这些情况下发挥的作用。

  

The COVID-19 pandemic has constrained the ability of states across the world
to govern and control their territories. As the state reduces its activities,
space opens for violent non-state actors working for and against the state to
fill the vacuum. Highlighting this trend, the present study evaluates the
effects of COVID-19 and pandemics more broadly on attacks by non-state actors.
Our theory emphasizes the incentives of both rebels and pro-government non-
state actors (PGNs) to increase their attack frequency as disease spreads and
the state retracts its governance activities to preserve resources needed
elsewhere. In the first case, we highlight how the pandemic allows rebels to
reduce asymmetries of power with respect to the military and establish
themselves as a viable government alternative. In the second case, PGNs, which
provide an alternative to militaries, are deployed to these contested spaces
to thwart or pre-empt rebellion during the pandemic. Employing daily-level
data on the annual change in armed conflict and COVID-19 cases across 127
countries between 1 January 2020 and 15 June 2020, we test both claims using
an econometric identification strategy. We do not find clear evidence that
COVID-19 led to a higher frequency of rebel attacks, suggesting that these
groups prefer to bolster their standing using nonviolent means, or avoid
fighting and preserve their resources. In contrast, we find that the frequency
of PGN attacks has increased with COVID-19 prevalence compared with last year.
Case studies of insurgent and PGN activity in Afghanistan and Nigeria lend
additional support to these results, illustrating some underlying mechanisms.
Our findings explore overlooked challenges that pandemics and other disasters
pose to conflict mitigation and the role PGNs play in these contexts.

  

编译 | 李源 张曼娜 房宇馨 江若婵 罗洁

审校 | 李源 张曼娜 房宇馨 江若婵 罗洁

排版 | 王慧瑜 苏伊文

文章观点不代表本平台观点，本平台评译分享的文章均出于专业学习之用, 不以任何盈利为目的，内容主要呈现对原文的介绍，原文内容请通过各高校购买的数据库自行下载。

![](/images/89/4.gif)

