---
title: 【网络安全】约书亚·瑞夫纳、泰勒·穆尔：网络空间是否需要存在一个霸权国？
date: 2018-04-16 12:14:15
author: 
tags: 
---


收录于合集

<img src='/images/3766/2.gif' width='auto' />

  

简

 **约书亚·瑞夫纳 Joshua Rovner**

美国南方卫理公会大学政治学副教授

 **泰勒·穆尔 Tyler Moore**

坦迪计算机学院网络安全和信息保障专业副教授，《网络安全杂志》主编

 **Does the Internet Need a Hegemon?**

 **Abstract**

Hegemonic stability theory holds that a dominant power can produce
international cooperation by providing public goods and resolving collective
action dilemmas. Successful hegemons also resist the temptation to exploit
their advantages in order to reduce other states’ fear of domination. This
article asks whether or not the internet needs the United States to play a
similar role. If so, Washington should pursue policies designed to strengthen
internet security while eschewing espionage and cyberattacks that rely on some
degree of internet insecurity. If not, it can go on the offensive without fear
of undermining the system as a whole. We examine the technical and political
fallout from revealed offensive cyberoperations to assess the relative
fragility of the internet. Our findings suggest that it is relatively
resilient.

参考译文：霸权稳定论认为，霸权国可以通过提供公共物品进行国际合作，解决集体安全困境。成功的霸权国会审慎使用自身优势，降低其他国家对霸权的恐惧。本文提出了一个问题，互联网是否需要美国发挥霸权国的作用。如果需要，美国就应当推行旨在加强网络安全的政策，防止利用互联网薄弱环节所进行的间谍活动、网络攻击。如果不需要，美国便可以无视体系的整体性。我们借已知的进攻性网络战的技术性和政治性影响，评估互联网的相对脆弱性。研究的结果表明，互联网具有相当的弹性。

Keywords

Cybersecurity , Hegemonic Stability Theory ,

Offensive Cyber Operations , Stuxnet , Snowden

网络安全，霸权稳定论，进攻性网络行动，“震网”病毒，斯诺登

  

Cybersecurity is a US national interest and a global public good. The United
States has powerful economic reasons to support a secure and reliable
internet, given the amount of commerce and intrafirm business now conducted
online. It also has a strong military stake in cybersecurity, given the scope
and complexity of communications among military forces and along the chain of
command. Cybersecurity is a global public good because it enables access to
reliable communications for all users. Everyone benefits from efforts to
mitigate vulnerabilities in software code, for instance, whether or not they
paid for them. And the worldwide boom in online communications means that
securing the internet protects the global economy.

But cybersecurity comes at a cost. The same protections that enable
individuals to communicate safely also enable criminals and militants to hide
online. In addition, while Washington has a clear interest in cybersecurity,
it also seeks to conduct espionage and attack its rivals in cyberspace.
Offensive cyberoperations (OCO) are a particularly appealing alternative to
war as they avoid the costs and risks of military violence. Perfect
cybersecurity would make such operations impossible. Other states know this,
of course, which causes them to question US motives. Indeed, the fact that
cybersecurity is a global public good does not mean that international
cybersecurity cooperation is inevitable, nor that other states welcome US
assistance. Fears of state intervention have raised concerns that the
internet, once seen as an apolitical bastion of free thought and exchange,
will become fragmented as states use it for their own purposes.

The clash of national and global interests in cyberspace is particularly acute
because there is no global government to resolve disputes. Sustaining
cooperation under anarchy is an enduring puzzle for international relations
theorists and animates some of the most enduring debates in political science.
Realist scholars view the international system as prone to conflict because
there is no higher authority that can enforce agreements among states (Waltz
1979). Liberal theorists, however, posit that international institutions can
foster cooperation in part by reducing transaction costs (Keohane 1984).
Extensions of this debate, including arguments about the value of
institutions, are discussed below. But perhaps the most controversial argument
focuses on the role of a hegemon, or a clearly dominant state, in the
international system. Hegemonic stability theory (HST) posits that peace and
prosperity are more likely when there is a clear hierarchy of states and one
undisputed leader. A state with dominant capabilities can sustain cooperation
by providing public goods and reducing collective action problems. Incentives
to cheat on agreements or free ride are reduced when the hegemon picks up the
tab. Hegemons also help coordinate action and deter challengers from
threatening the global order.

Some critics of HST argue that hegemony is destabilizing because any state
with a preponderance of power will create fear and suspicion among others.
Anarchy will compel smaller and weaker states to protect themselves against a
predatory hegemon, either by building up their own defenses or by forming
balancing alliances. However, defenders note that the hegemon can take steps
to reduce such fears by binding itself to international bodies or designing
political institutions that constrain leaders, including its own, from rash
decisions. Others acknowledge that, while a hegemon may be necessary for
establishing order in a deeply unstable environment, it will become less
important over time. The emergence of durable international institutions will
encourage cooperation after hegemony by improving the quality of information
available and by reducing transaction costs. In either case, the dominant
power sustains the international order by eschewing parochial actions.
Resisting the temptation to exploit its power encourages cooperation by
reducing smaller states’ fear of domination.

Contemporary critics might doubt whether or not the United States maintains
the ability to play the role of benevolent hegemon, particularly since recent
events suggest it cannot protect its own critical systems. During the 2016
presidential campaign, the Russian government allegedly organized the theft of
emails from the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton’s campaign
chairperson John Podesta. It subsequently used WikiLeaks and other websites to
publish the contents online as part of an effort to embarrass Clinton and sow
doubt about US institutions. Donald Trump won the election by a very narrow
margin, and some observers believe that his victory would have been impossible
without Russian interference. Most significantly, US intelligence and law
enforcement agencies were unable to prevent the cyberheist, and the Obama
administration offered a tepid and vacillating response. This is not the
portrait of a state able to play the hegemon on this issue. If anything, the
election drama suggests that the United States is playing catch-up. The notion
that the United States can provide cybersecurity as a global public good seems
increasingly absurd.

But the events of last summer need be put in context. The Russian operation
was a modern version of an old political tool Soviet officials call “active
measures.” These mostly included propaganda and misinformation designed to
bring down government officials, candidates for office, and other prominent
political figures. Historically, the record of Soviet active measures against
the United States was quite poor (Andrew and Mitrokhin 1999). This time proved
different, but had little to do with US cybercapabilities. Instead, it was
largely a product of one of the strangest campaigns in US history, including a
series of unlikely events that came together to enable Russian efforts and
promote Trump’s eventual victory.1 Moreover, even if the United States is
vulnerable to propaganda, this does not mean it is less able to influence
global cybersecurity. By way of analogy, we do not doubt the fighting strength
of the US military based on civilian vulnerability to terrorist attacks.

For reasons of history, geography, and technology, the United States continues
to enjoy an extraordinary position in cyberspace. US computer scientists built
the internet and experienced predominant influence over the design of
institutions that currently govern it. Meanwhile, the National Security Agency
(NSA) emerged as the largest signals intelligence organization in the world,
investing in extraordinary capabilities for espionage, information assurance,
and OCO. Silicon Valley remains the hub for global private sector technology
development. And both government and industry benefit from American higher
education, which has expanded graduate programs in computer science and
related fields. These capabilities remain unaffected by the events of last
year. While US influence might decline over time, especially if other states
build capabilities that make cooperation with the United Sates unnecessary, so
far this has not occurred.

How might the United States use these unique capabilities? Informed by the
assumption that cybersecurity is a public good prone to collective action,
most see a trade-off between US investments in cyberattacks and espionage for
its national security benefit and continued provision of a secure internet for
the world. Those advocating for internet security suggest that Washington (1)
increase its involvement in internet governance in order to help codify a set
of durable rules of the road or (2) decide to give up opportunities for
espionage and sabotage by strengthening encryption, alerting technology firms
to vulnerabilities in software and taking additional steps to make internet
communications inviolable—or both.

Here we use an empirical investigation of response to significant security
failures to evaluate whether or not this trade-off is really in effect. We
propose five measures of internet resiliency and evaluate the aftermath of the
Stuxnet attack on Iran’s nuclear complex and the Snowden revelations about the
NSA. Did these events lead to significant changes in user, firm, and state
behavior? Such changes would suggest that cybersecurity is vulnerable to
collective action problems, or perceived as such, and that great powers risk
undermining the security of the internet when they use it as a vehicle for
intelligence gathering and covert operations. On the other hand, the absence
of significant behavioral change in the wake of Stuxnet and Snowden suggests
that fears that cyberattacks will lead to erosion of the public good may be
exaggerated. In this case, the United States could more safely pursue its dual
interests without fear of eroding cybersecurity.

We proceed in three steps. The first section describes HST and applies it to
cyberspace. While new technologies have led some to question the relevance of
classic international relations theories, we explain why HST offers a useful
framework for the cybersecurity policy debate. The second section explores the
cases in detail. We find that the internet proved resilient, despite fears
that OCO would undermine the cooperation needed to sustain it. This is
significant both for what it suggests about the consequences of OCO, but also
because the current debate exists mostly in the abstract. Policy arguments
about internet security primarily weigh the possible effects of US policy,
instead of studying the outcomes achieved so far. The conclusion discusses
those outcomes and describes the implications for international relations (IR)
theory and US cybersecurity policy.

 **Is the Internet's Security Fragile？**

Two recent revelations of clandestine US efforts to penetrate or attack
information systems previously assumed to be secure provide an opportunity to
measure the internet’s fragility. The first is the Stuxnet attack against
Iran’s nuclear program. The second involves former NSA contractor Edward
Snowden’s revelations about the agency in 2013. We describe the response in
both cases. The basic test is simple: if the optimists are right, then these
cases should not have dramatically dampened enthusiasm for internet
communications and commerce. But dramatic changes, including signs of
retrenchment from users, firms, and states, would indicate that cybersecurity
depends on hegemonic restraint.

We develop and employ five measures of fragility to assess the unintended
results of Stuxnet and the Snowden revelations. The first three are political,
and the last two are technical. The internet operates as a kind of global
common, which only exists because of human engineering and maintenance. Thus,
a useful analytical framework must also pay attention to the technical details
of internet operations, both before and after political shocks. Our approach
relies in equal measure on IR theory, political economy, and computer science.

To be clear, we do not attempt to address all aspects of cybersecurity. Our
conception relies on a classic construct, abbreviated CIA, which stands for
confidentiality, integrity, and availability. Cybersecurity obtains when all
three goals are achieved. In the ideal, users safely communicate without
risking unauthorized disclosure of information, without having that
information modified or erased, and without being denied access to information
or information systems.10 Because a sufficient technical analysis is beyond
the scope of this article, we focus squarely on resilience as the most germane
to understanding the fallout from OCO. Describing and measuring resilience in
these cases is crucial for understanding cybersecurity in periods during which
observers fear that cyberspace has become insecure.

The following section outlines the measures we employ. After introducing the
categories, we report on the data observed in the context of Stuxnet and the
Snowden disclosures. The evidence is not comprehensive, of course, as both
events were recent. Moreover, we do not claim that Stuxnet and Snowden are
perfectly representative of all conceivable cyberattacks. However, the logic
of the framework is generalizable. Indeed, by describing broad political and
technical measures of fragility, we believe it provides a useful framework for
analyzing political and technological responses to similar incidents. We
summarize the framework in Tables 1 and 2.

![](/images/3766/3.png)

![](/images/3766/4.png)

 **Summary**

  

We develop new measures for assessing whether or not the underlying technology
is physically capable of absorbing cyberattacks, while focusing on the
importance of political perceptions following cyberattacks in determining
cybersecurity policy. Our measures of fragility show that while Stuxnet and
Snowden have had important consequences, the system itself has proven
resilient. Users have not lost enthusiasm for communicating online, despite
repeated warnings about privacy violations and vulnerability to surveillance.
The most important consequence seems to have been a small reduction in web
searches for sensitive terms, though it is unclear whether the result lasted
beyond the first few months after the scandal broke. And while firms have
elected to pursue defenses on their own and have maintained a skeptical view
toward cooperation with governments on cyberthreats, such strained relations
predate the Stuxnet and Snowden controversies. Finally, while states have
increased efforts to shore up their cybersecurity capabilities in the
aftermath of Stuxnet and Snowden, they have not reduced cooperation on
cybersecurity in general.16

Cybersecurity may have elements of a global public good, but this article
demonstrates that scholars should be investigating rather than assuming that
the maintenance of global public goods requires hegemonic leadership. The two
cases we examine show cybersecurity to be resilient even when the hegemon is
not playing by the rules. The policy implications are straightforward. The
system appears resilient and self-sustaining even under stress. The expanse of
the internet—a hodge-podge of state institutions, international coordinating
bodies, and private firms—may make US control unworkable even if desirable.
Such resiliency means, however, that United States efforts to protect its
national security, even developing offensive tools for cyberspace, may not
have the deleterious trade-offs on cybersecurity that HST would expect. A
number of legal, political, and operational factors influence decisions
regarding intelligence collection and OCOs. None of these factors should be
taken lightly, and the preceding discussion is not meant to offer policymakers
a green light for any and all cybersecurity policies. Our findings nonetheless
suggest that policymakers should not be overly concerned that their actions
will lead to significant harm to the internet.

文章有删减，原文链接: https://pan.baidu.com/s/1QvsU-V8jQC1ZWFapM8QV3g 密码: pr64  

文章来源：Journal of Global Security Studies, 1 July 2017

编辑：里仝

  

 **学人约稿与入群邀请**

  

[【投稿荐稿】欢迎广大学人投稿荐稿到本平台推广学习！](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247486222&idx=2&sn=49b2e73e6bdc1bfe9e7af22e6de2aae5&chksm=eb3f9548dc481c5e9f45762c4f0985520da304c09c54293fe3824a19b6d4bd067f9ace45d809&scene=21#wechat_redirect)  

<img src='/images/3766/5.png' width='100%' />

<img src='/images/3766/6.gif' width='auto' />

  

