---
title: 【要闻梳理】2017年12月10日-11日
date: 2017-12-11 21:55:00
author: 
tags: 
---


收录于合集

![](/images/3907/2.gif)

供稿新译科技、黄建峰，国政学人编辑首发

  

双语要闻

  

![](/images/3907/3.png)

1、《2017中国—东盟“五通指数”报告》发布 表现优良 新马泰位居前列；

1 China-ASEAN Five-Connective Index 2017 Report Released, Singapore-Malaysia-
Thailand Topping the First under the Index’s Good Performance

2、“京通号”北京城市副中心线动车组交付 25分钟到通州；

2\. Train Jingtong Delivered, taking 25 minutes to Beijing sub-center Tongzhou

3、联通在线公司在京挂牌 混改进入“施工期”；

3\. China Unicom Online’s Establishment in Beijing Marks Mixed Ownership
Reform Entering Construction Period

4、中国票房提前突破500亿元 贺岁档票房预期50亿元；

4\. China’s Box Office Exceeded 50 Billion Yuan in Advance, Expecting 5
Billion for New-Year Films

5、统计局：农业种植结构调整优化 粮食播种面积减少 玉米播种面积减少较多；

5\. Statistics Bureau: Adjusting Agricultural Planting Structure Decreases
Grain Acreage， Cutting down More Corn Area

6、“汉语盘点2017”年度候选字词正式出炉，“赞”“怼”“新时代”“初心”等热门国内字词入围

6\. Chinese Characters and Words of 2017 Released, with Like, Attack, New Ear,
and Original Aspiration in the List

7、2017经济潮流人物评选结果：牛文文戴琨等10人获奖；

7\. 2017 Economic Trend Figure Evaluation Come out, Niu Wenwen, Dai Kun and
Other 8 Winning Prizes

8、多省发起乙醇汽油推广 传统汽油明年陆续停售；

8\. Multi-Provinces’ Initiatives to Promote Ethanol Will Gradually Stop
Marketing Traditional Gasoline Next Year

9、人民日报调查快递行业：纸板和塑料回收率不足10%；

9\. People's Daily Investigates Courier Industry: Recycling Rate for Cardboard
and Plastic, Less Than 10%

10、沃尔玛公司更名去“去百货化” 拟力拓在线业务；

10\. Walmart Changes Its Name to Focus on Expending Online Business

11、百度AI加速器第一期开营 22家企业入驻；

11\. First Phase of Baidu Ai Accelerator Starts and Receives 22 Enterprises

12、乐天玛特输血3亿美元已见底 抛售失败或继续砸钱；

12\. After Injecting $300 Million, Lotte Mart Has Hit the Bottom, May Continue
To Burn Money after Selloff Failure

1、环保部特急函：煤改气未完工的继续燃煤取暖 保障群众温暖过冬；

1、Notice from the Ministry of Environmental Protection: Coal heating for this
winter if natural gas heating unavailable

2、农业部印发《"十三五"全国远洋渔业发展规划》；

2、The Ministry of Agriculture issued The Development Plan for Pelagic
Fisheries During the 13th five-year Plan

3、发改委：对区域存煤和电厂存煤设定最高和最低库存；

3、The National Development and Reform Commission set the highest and lowest
coal storage limit in coal production regions and coal-fired power plants

4、第十一届中国最具幸福感城市调查推选活动结果揭晓，长沙连续十年入选；

4、11th annual survey of China's most happy cities unveiled: Changsha among the
selected for ten consecutive times

5、山西两年关闭52座煤矿 退出4590万吨煤炭产能；

5、Shanxi: 52 coal mines closed in recent two years, a reduction of 45.9
million tons of coal capacity

6、雄安、深圳、上海、苏州、成都、兰州六个城市和地区电信5G试点工作进入新阶段；

6、A new phase for six 5G pilot base cities, namely Xiong'an, Shenzhen,
Shanghai, Suzhou, Chengdu and Lanzhou

7、2016年中国专利申请量世界第一 95%在国内；

7、In 2016, China ranked world first in patent application, 95 percent from
mainland

8、北京为疏解企业外来务工人员发补贴 最多可领13536元；

8、Beijing: A maximum of 13,536 yuan compensation subsidies for evicted migrant
workers

9、AlphaGo又进化了：除了围棋 现在还学会国际象棋；

9、AlphaGo evolved again: Not only Go, it can also play chess

10、余额宝单日申购额度调整为2万 超过98%用户不受影响；

10、Alibaba's Yu'ebao limited daily transaction to 20,000 Yuan, over 98% of its
customers not affected

11、北京保障房超额竣工3万套，新开工比计划多1.5万余套；

11、Beijing: 30,000 more indemnificatory apartments constructed than original
plan, 15,000 more under construction than original plan

12、莎普爱思曾多次向浙江平湖科技局官员行贿，多名官员已领刑；

12、Several officials from Pinghu Municipal Science and Technology Bureau
admitted taking bribes from Zhejiang Shapuaisi Pharmaceutical

  

![](/images/3907/4.png)

 **国际** **要闻速递**

1、王毅谈朝鲜半岛核问题：动武绝不可接受；

2、中国驻外前大使：中国已掌握南海形势主动权；

3、2018年国考今举行：招录2.8万余人 近166万人报；

4、以色列总理涉贪丑闻发酵 国内万人示威促下台；

5、澳总理用普通话回击中方批评：澳大利亚人民站起来了；

6、美国智库：美国军力不敌中俄 下一场战争或会输；

7、美国驻联合国大使“单挑”14国：少对我说教；

8、美五角大楼将首次接受审计 包括人员房地产军火；

9、蒂勒森欧洲“修复”之旅铩羽而归；

10、美纽约州州长涉造假被FBI调查 发言人:白宫也这样；

11、巴基斯坦空军参谋长：将在中国帮助下研制五代机；

12、日防卫相：追加申请7亿日元以引进陆基宙斯盾系统；

13、外媒：特朗普巴以和平方案已定 沙特施压巴方接受；

14、联合国通报访朝情况:半岛局势系世界最危险问题；

15、日媒：印度对特朗普强烈不信任 仅表面与美日一致；

16、英脱欧分手协议遇暗涌 国会议员威胁否决；

17、德社民党主席舒尔茨闯关成功 组阁谈判现希望；

18、俄副外长警告美国不要破坏《中导条约》；

  

 **文字整理** ：新译科技、 黄建峰

 ** 编辑**：米金金

  

  

<img src='/images/3907/5.gif' width='auto' />

  

  

轻点下方广告支持我们

我们将更好地为您呈现精彩内容！

<img src='/images/3907/6.gif' width='51' height='69' />

  

  

