---
title: 【要闻梳理】2017年12月14日-15日
date: 2017-12-15 22:00:00
author: 
tags: 
---


收录于合集

![](/images/3899/2.gif)

  

供稿新译科技、黄建峰，国政学人编辑首发

  

 **12月14日 星期四**

1、习近平：全力推进新时代练兵备战工作；

2、民政部拟规定：慈善组织未依法履行信息公开将被罚；

3、国家发改委：12月14日国内成品油价格不作调整；

4、台湾诗人余光中病逝 办公室正对台湾海峡；

5、美媒：西方应停止幻想 中国不会变得更像我们；

6、白宫否认蒂勒森无条件与朝对话发言:朝必须先弃核；

7、美联储如期加息，预计2018年仍有三次加息；

8、普京：将作为独立候选人参加2018年总统大选；

9、美国提出删减新一年联合国经费 欲删减2.5亿美元；

10、普京：美国计划退出《中导条约》 或冲击国际关系；

11、俄朝协议:防止不可抗力造成的军事设备进对方境内；

12、俄外交部：俄军在叙军事存在完全符合国际法；

13、普京:俄需确保自身安全 而非牺牲经济参与军备竞赛；

14、中韩美专家学者首尔共议朝鲜半岛和平与发展；

15、崔顺实案开庭 青瓦台首席秘书乐天会长共同受审；

16、韩外交白皮书：为朝鲜无核化与美日中俄加深合作；

17、菲众议院议长：希望中国援建桥梁和铁路项目。

 **12月15日 星期五（双语）**

1.Xiongan New Area in Hebei province has launched a special operation to crack
down on gang crimes, according to an article posted on the area's WeChat
account on Wednesday. The article says each county was ordered to handle at
least one case of gang crimes every month.

12月14日（周三）雄安新区官方微信发文，雄安新区将持续开展打黑除恶和打渣除痞专项行动，文称， “每个县都要在一个月内至少侦办一起黑恶痞霸案件”。

2．China-Japan relations better, still not great. According to the survey of
more than 1,500 Chinese and 1,000 Japanese, 22.8 percent of Chinese said they
believed bilateral relations are "very good" or "relatively good", an increase
of 8.8 percentage points over last year.

中日关系出现转暖，仍待改善。根据对1500多名中国人和1000多名日本人的一份调查显示，其中有22.8%的中国人认为双边关系“非常好”或“相对来说很好”，这一比例高出去年8.8个百分点。

3.China works to raise public awareness for human rights protection. BEIJING
-- China has been actively promoting the development of global human rights
under the rule of law, said a white paper issued by China's State Council
Information Office Friday.

中国致力提高公民人权保护意识。北京——12月15日（周五），国务院新闻办公室发表白皮书称，中国一直在积极依法推进全球人权发展。

4.China has been effectively enhancing judicial protection of human rights
over the last five years, said a white paper issued by China's State Council
Information Office on Friday. Efforts to prevent and correct wrongful
convictions had seen the correction of 37 major cases of miscarriage of
justice involving 61 people, and the acquittal of 4,032 defendants as per the
law from 2013 to 2017.

国务院新闻办公室发布白皮书，中国过去五年依法保护人权成效显著。全国法院纠正重大刑事冤假错案37起61人；2013年至2017年，共宣告4032名被告人无罪。

5.President Xi attends state memorial ceremony for Nanjing Massacre victims.
President Xi Jinping attends the State memorial ceremony in Nanjing, Jiangsu
province, on Wednesday to mark the 80th anniversary of the Nanjing Massacre.
Xi and other senior officials joined people from different walks of life at
the memorial hall for the victims in paying tribute to the more than 300,000
who died.

习近平参加南京大屠杀国家公祭。本周三，国家主席习近平在江苏省南京市出席南京大屠杀80周年纪念仪式。习近平和其高层官员与来自各界群众在纪念馆对30万遇难者进行悼念。

6.Visitors flock to Summer Palace for annual spectacle. The Summer Palace in
Beijing has attracted thousands of tourists this week hoping to catch sight of
the setting sun shining through the Seventeen-Arch Bridge over Kunming Lake.

游客涌至颐和园看一年一度盛景。位于北京的颐和园本周吸引了大量游客，他们都渴望看到昆明湖上十七孔桥的“金光穿孔”景象。

7\. Court: Hospitals not responsible if families refuse to give consent. The
ruling, issued by the Supreme People’s Court on Wednesday clarifies that
hospitals will be exempted from responsibility if doctors perform emergency
surgery before they are able to secure consent from patients’ relatives.

法院：亲属拒表态 医院救垂危患者不担责。根据周三最高人民法院的说明，医生在不能取得患者近亲属意见的情况下，如采取了紧急措施抢救，将免除由此产生的责任问题。

8\. Esteemed Taiwan poet Yu Guangzhong dies Famous Taiwanese poet, writer and
translator Yu Guangzhong died on Thursday, Dec. 15 at the age of 90

台湾知名作家余光中先生于周四（12月14日）逝世，享年90岁，他也是著名诗人、翻译家。

9\. Game of Thrones' returning in 2019. "Game of Thrones" fans are used to
long waits. But now they may have to settle in and wait until 2019 for theHBO
hit show's final season.

《权利的游戏》将于2019年回归。《权利的游戏》的粉丝习惯了长久的等待。但是现在他们不得不冷静下来，并一直等，直到2019年HBO开播热播剧《权力的游戏》的完结季。

10\. Families of MH370 to sue Boeing. Some of the families of passengers who
went missing on Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 will go to the United States next
week to file a lawsuit against aircraft maker Boeing, a lawyer involved in the
case said.

MH370遇难者家属起诉波音公司。一名参与该案件的律师透露：马航遇难者部分家属将于下周抵达美国，起诉MH370飞机制造商波音公司。

11\. Herder dies from a form of plague. Health authorities in Gansu province
have confirmed the death of a patient from septicemic plague－a rare disease in
China. The patient, a herder from Jiuquan's Subei Mongolian autonomous county,
died on Tuesday afternoon despite efforts by medical personnel

牧民感染鼠疫死亡。周二下午（12月12日）甘肃省卫生已确认一名病人死于败血病这一中国罕见病。该病人为酒泉苏北蒙古自治县的牧民，经抢救无效死亡。

  

 **文字整理** ：新译科技、 黄建峰

 ** 编辑**：沉安

<img src='/images/3899/3.gif' width='auto' />

  

轻点下方广告支持我们

我们将更好地为您呈现精彩内容！

<img src='/images/3899/4.gif' width='51' height='69' />

