---
title: 【重磅招聘】复旦大学国务学院2019年度全职博士后招聘启事
date: 2019-03-19 21:19:13
author: 
tags: 
---


收录于合集

![](/images/3301/2.gif)

**2019年度全职博士后招聘启事**

![](/images/3301/3.jpeg)

  

  

  

 **招聘岗位**

  

 **政治学博士后流动站（4人）**

  

 **公共管理博士后流动站（2人）**

  

 **重点研究方向：**

  

世界政党研究，比较政治经济，中外政治制度，中外政治思想，中国政治，政党建设与国家治理体系，公共政策与国家治理，政府创新与公共管理，国际组织公共管理，全球治理与中国外交，宗教与国际关系，国家统一理论模式，台湾问题中的外部因素，国际公共政策，国际关系和外交理论，大国关系，区域国别研究。

  

  

 **岗位基本要求**

  

1、在海内外高校获得博士学位3年以内或应届博士研究生，以及从其他博士后科研流动站（工作站）出站的博士后研究人员，年龄35岁以下，所学专业为政治学、国际关系、公共管理等相关领域；

  

2、具有扎实的理论基础和较高的外语水平，具备较强的研究能力和敬业精神；

  

3、除承担流动站的科研工作外，还需承担学院部分科研和教学任务；

  

4、表达沟通能力好，有合作精神；

  

5、具备全日制进站工作条件，不招收在职研究人员。本校博士毕业生不能进入本校同学科（一级学科）的流动站。

  

  

 **相关福利待遇**

  

1、薪酬待遇参照国家和复旦大学的相关标准，约10万元/年；  

  

2、如研究课题与学院学科重点方向契合，学院将提供一定的科研资助；

  

3、提供博士后办公场所；

  

4、住房、户口等其他方面根据学校相关政策执行；

  

5、博士后工作一般为2年，博士后在站期间取得突出科研成果，符合学校人才引进条件的，有机会留校任教。

  

  

 **应聘者需提供的资料**

  

1、个人简历（需注明所申请的流动站、研究方向、意向合作导师）；

  

2、博士学位证书、毕业证书（复印件）或其他有关的有效证明文件（应届毕业生可先递交答辩决议书）；

  

3、身份证或护照（复印件）；

  

4、博士期间及工作以来发表论文的清单及2篇学术研究代表作；

  

5、本人拟在博士后期间从事的研究方向、研究课题及研究初步打算（不超过3000字）；

  

6、博士论文。

  

  

 **联系方式**

  

应聘者请于 **2019年4月21日前** 提交电子版材料（发送至fdusirpahr@126.com），学院初审通过后于5月上旬左右通知面试。  

  

联系人：郑老师

联系电话：021-55665340

联系地址：上海市邯郸路220号复旦大学国际关系与公共事务学院文科楼618室，邮编200433。

  

![](/images/3301/4.gif)![](/images/3301/5.jpeg)![](/images/3301/6.gif)

  

 **The Recruitment of full-time Post doctorate 2019,**

 **School of International Relations and Public Affairs, Fudan University**

  

  

 **1.Recruitment Positions**

  

1)Post-doctoral Research Station of Political Science: Four persons

  

2)Post-doctoral Research Station of Public Administration: Two persons

  

3)Major Research Directions:

  

Political Party Research; Comparative Political Economy; Chinese and Foreign
Political System; Chinese and Foreign Political Thought; Chinese Politics;
Political Party Building and Governance System, Public Policy and Governance;
Government Innovation and public management; Management of International
Organization; Global Governance and China's Diplomacy; Religion and
International Relations; Theoretical Model of National Unity; External Factors
on Taiwan Issue; International Public Policy; International Relations and
Diplomatic Theory; Relations between Major Powers; Regional Studies.

  

 **2.Basic Job Requirements**

  

1)Fresh Ph.D who obtained the doctoral degree within three years or
postdoctoral researchers from other post-doctoral research stations
(workstations), who is under 35 and major in political science, international
relations, public administration and other related fields. The one who has
overseas study and research experience is preferred.

  

2)Solid theoretical foundation, high level of foreign language, strong
research capability and professionalism.

  

3)Undertake research work as well as a part of teaching at school

  

4)Good communication skill and spirit of cooperation

  

5)Full-time stint working conditions and the Ph.D graduates from Fudan
University cannot enter the same discipline (a subject) of the rover.

  

 **3.Welfare Benefits**

  

1)Salary and startup research fund ￥100,000 each year

  

2)The excellent performer who has been audited by the relevant academic
institutions after a two-year contract can obtain a teaching position at
school

  

3)Postdoctoral research sites will be provided

  

4)Other aspects such as housing and residence permit will be implied according
to the policies of school

  

 **4.Required Information**

  

1)Curriculum Vitae

  

2)Postdoctoral application form which can be found on the following
link(http://www.chinapostdoctor.org.cn/WebSite/program/InfoCate_Show.aspx?INFOCATEGORYID=website003004)

  

3)Doctoral graduation certificate and diploma (photocopy) or other relevant
valid documents. This year’s graduate can submit the respondent resolution
book first.

  

4)A list of published papers during the Ph. D study and after work, and two
representatives of academic research

  

5)Postdoctoral research subject and a preliminary plan to research work(no
more than 3000 words)

  

6)Doctoral dissertation

  

 **5.Contact Information**

  

 **Email Address:** fdusirpahr@126.com

 **Address:** Room 618, School of International Relations and Public Affairs,
Wenke Building,

Fudan University, No. 220 Handan Road, Shanghai

 **Postcode:** 200433

 **Contact Person:** Alice Zheng

 **Tel:** 86-21-55665340

  

Please submit the soft copy of application package (to the email address)
before **April 20th, 2019** and the interview will be hold in early May.

![](/images/3301/7.jpeg)

  

  

<img src='/images/3301/8.jpeg' width='100%'
/>![](/images/3301/9.jpeg)![](/images/3301/10.png)

来源：复旦大学国际关系与公共事务学院

  

  

更多阅读

[【历史文章】国政学人历史文章导航页面专用链接](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247487647&idx=4&sn=713bf729dca089516e8f304f88955380&chksm=eb3f8ed9dc4807cf89f3e211dd726289dd92edc62a6a8e19953bf2b366bbeffb59d285e95119&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[【团队纳新】国政学人2019年春季招募工作启动通知](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247488529&idx=1&sn=4d7a223b6bbfccdb000d0846d8be30e8&chksm=eb3f8a57dc480341c8a6ed4339b6d215c73b98cacfdba087fa5b5eddc1b2337dfd0549522576&scene=21#wechat_redirect)  

  

 **国政学人** （ID：guozhengxueren)

  

 **为方便学人及时阅读高质量文章**

 **别忘把国政学人设置** **星标** **哦~**

![](/images/3301/11.gif)![](/images/3301/12.gif)

