---
title: 南加州大学招聘国际政治经济学博士后研究员
date: 2021-03-07 19:58:00
author: 
tags: 
---


收录于合集

![](/images/1184/2.jpeg)

  

<img src='/images/1184/3.jpeg' width='25' height='25' />

**USC Center for International Studies**  

 **Postdoctoral Scholar – Research Associate**  

 **Deadline: 3/15/2021**  

  
![](/images/1184/4.jpeg)

  

The Center for International Studies in the Dornsife College of Letters, Arts
and Sciences at the University of Southern California (USC；Los Angeles,
California) invites applications for a one-year postdoctoral fellowship in the
2021–22 academic year. The fall semester starts in the third week of August
2021.  
  
We seek applicants with (a) a strong research profile in comparative and/or
international political economy, with a preference for security or climate
change expertise; and (b) a demonstrated commitment to conducting cutting-edge
research targeted at the top journals and university presses in political
science and/or international relations.  
  
The Center has a preference for selecting candidates who have an interest in
engaging affiliated faculty in USC’s Department of Political Science and
International Relations (POIR), including scholars specializing in:  
•The international political economy of security, broadly defined  
•Environment, inequality, and redistributive conflicts in global comparative
perspective; climate change policy preferences; political economy of state
capacity with relation to climate issues  
  
Postdoctoral fellows will also have an option to affiliate with one of two
labs within POIR. USC’s Security and Political (SPEC) Lab, which conducts
interdisciplinary, policy-relevant research on issues at the intersection of
climate change, security, and economic development. This lab applies the
Stewardship Model of Mentoring to providing experiential research education to
undergraduate students and works particularly hard to recruit first-generation
college students, minority students, and other members of other
underrepresented groups. Alternatively or additionally, the fellow will also
have the option to affiliate with a newly forming Inequality Lab with
Professor Allison Hartnett.  
  
If a postdoctoral fellow is interested in affiliating with the SPEC Lab and
engaging in mentorship, the Lab is prepared to fund a team of undergraduate
research assistants supporting the fellow’s research.  
  
During their year at USC, the postdoctoral fellow will pursue their own
research agenda, but we are seeking to recruit an emerging scholar whose
research interests are such that mutually beneficial collaboration with POIR
faculty and/or doctoral students will yield the following benefits:  
•One or more co-authored papers with POIR faculty and/or doctoral students  
•Broad intellectual engagement and knowledge transfer between the postdoctoral
fellow and the CIS/POIR research community  
•Strong research productivity and professional growth for the postdoctoral
fellow  
  
Applicants must be junior scholars who have received a PhD within the last
three years (and no later than August 1, 2021).  
  
Applications should be complete by March 15, 2021, to receive fullest
consideration. Applicants are required to complete the online application
process (with few exceptions—such as published books—materials submitted by
regular post will not be accepted).  
  
Follow this link or paste it in a browser:http://bit.ly/usccispostdoc
(REQ20097804)  
  
Required materials include a letter of interest, a one-page proposal for
collaboration with USC faculty, curriculum vitae, research sample, three
reference letters and official graduate transcripts. Inquiries may be sent to
cis@dornsife.usc.edu.  
  
This is a one-year fixed term position.

  

USC is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. All qualified
applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race,
color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin,
protected veteran status, disability or any other characteristic protected by
law or USC policy. USC will consider for employment all qualified applicants
with criminal histories in a manner consistent with the requirements of the
Los Angeles Fair Chance Initiative for Hiring ordinance. We provide reasonable
accommodations to applicants and employees with disabilities. Applicants with
questions about access or requiring a reasonable accommodation for any part of
the application or hiring process should contact USC Human Resources by phone
at (213) 821-8100, or by email at uschr@usc.edu. Inquiries will be treated as
confidential to the extent permitted by law.

  

  

 **好好学习，天天“在看”**<img src='/images/1184/5.gif' width='17' height='17' />

<img src='/images/1184/6.png' width='100%' />

