---
title: 唐世平：中国与欧盟会共同行动吗？
date: 2017-06-23 22:06:44
author: 
tags: 
---


收录于合集

![](/images/4176/2.png)

  

Can the EU and China Act Together?

  

编者按：

此文为唐世平和一位欧洲学者合作（曾经是唐教授的同事）的一篇新作，原文发表在 Europe's World网站。

  

<img src='/images/4176/3.png' width='60' height='auto'
/>唐世平：顺带说一句，我们许多学者用中文写不少文章，试图告诉其他国家怎么做。我实在是不能理解这么做有何用：你如何想呼吁或者说服其它国家做某些事情，恐怕只有用他们的语音或者英文写出来才有用吧。因此，我认为，那些用中文呼吁或者说服其它国家做某些事情的文章，要么是在装蒜，要么就是为了凑一篇文章而已。

  

以下是原文  

![](/images/4176/4.png)

  
Sebastian Bersick and Shiping Tang  
20.06.2017

  
The post-Second World War and post-Cold War international system is facing
some strong headwinds. Europe has been under siege from massive immigration,
terrorist attacks, rising populism, a war in Ukraine and, of course, Brexit.
The Middle East remains stuck in violence and cold peace without any hopeful
signs. Meanwhile, East Asia seems to be adrift without a concrete regional
project. Most critically, the United States under Donald Trump seems to be
unable and unwilling to act as a responsible stakeholder in global governance
anymore.

  
In this time of upheaval, the European Union and its member states, as well as
China, need to find new roles in some uncharted territories. We believe it is
high time for the EU and China to move beyond their existing patchy patterns
of cooperation and build a more stable and reliable partnership by acting
together in some key areas of global governance. Both share an interest in
upholding the existing international order. As such, both sides – and the
world – will benefit much if the EU and China can act together.

  
From a European perspective, we are arguably witnessing the most profound
structural change since the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 and the end of
systemic bipolarity in international relations. Most prominently, under Trump,
the transatlantic partnership has largely changed from that of a normative
community based on values to a functional necessity based on interests. The
new US administration’s ideology of ‘America First’ risks a further
transatlantic estrangement, ifnot the partnership’s erosion.

  
Key leaders within the EU now openly challenge some of Trump’s key approaches.
In view of Trump’s bans on travel to the US from many majority-Muslim
countries and his rejection of the Paris climate change agreement, Emmanuel
Macron, as candidate and French President, has offered home to scientists and
entrepreneurs: “I want all those who today embody innovation and excellence in
the United States to hear what we say: from now on… you will have a new
homeland, France.”

  
For Germany’s chancellor Angela Merkel, the US under Trump is ceasing to be a
reliable partner and Europe can no longer “completely depend” on the US. The
so-called West is threatened to disintegrate, taking with it some key
institutions that have so far governed the existing international order.

  
From a Chinese perspective, the time for shouldering more global
responsibilities might have come earlier than expected. Fundamentally, China’s
economic development depends on the collective goods provided by the existing
international order. Yet the existing order is now under duress because the US
under Trump is threatening to pull the plug of some key pillars of the order.
With so much uncertainty, even the success of China’s two key projects, the
Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) and the Belt and Road Initiative
(BRI), is not guaranteed.

  
Unsurprisingly, therefore, when Trump proclaims the merits of protectionism in
his inaugural address, Chinese President Xi Jinping, speaking at the World
Economic Forum in Davos, not only called for an open economic order but also
proclaimed China’s interest to “vigorously foster an external environment of
opening-up for common development.”

  
Although Trump and Xi had a fairly successful informal summit, there is
lingering doubt within China’s policy circles about Trump’s reliability as a
leader, in addition to the existing worry that Trump may go too far in
undermining some of the key pillars of international order.Moreover, many
Chinese elites also suspect that the US will be unwilling to accept China as
an equal partner, no matter what.

  
Both the EU and China grasp that their bilateral relationship is now more
critical than ever. The EU is China’s biggest trading partner while China is
the EU’s second-largest trading partner after the US. In addition, there are a
host of issues on which the EU and China share common ground. So as Trump
withdrew from the Paris agreement, the EU and China, meeting in Brussels, re-
emphasised their resolve to fight climate change.

  
But it is also apparent that the EU and China cannot patch things up easily.
The recent EU-China summit in Brussels made this fact abundantly clear.
Because of the EU’s refusal to grant market economy status to China an
expected EU-China joint declaration on climate change was not agreed. Instead,
the focus during the summit shifted to deep differences between China and the
EU. Negotiations on an EU-China investment agreement stalled; the EU continues
to deplore limited market access and Chinese dumping, especially in the steel
sector. EU Trade Commissioner Cecilia Malmström was critical of Beijing: “The
welcome commitments from [China] about liberalisation have not been matched by
concrete action”.

  
But for China, Brussels’ anti-dumping measures against Chinese products are
only exposing the EU’s protectionism towards China. The challenges to a
redefinition of China’s and Europe’s role in international relations also
became evident in the public debate in Germany surrounding Chinese Premier Li
Keqiang’s recent visit to Berlin. Some observers argue for an EU-China
partnership in trade and climate change, whereas others emphasise the risk of
letting China gain the upper hand.

  
We believe that the EU and China should work with each other closely to clear
the way for a steadier partnership, even if the US comes back from Trumpism.
With the US disengaging from global governance and multilateralism in
international affairs, Europeans are, for the first time, fundamentally
challenged to develop real autonomy and agency. The EU now needs partners
other than the US to uphold the international order on which Europe’s
prosperity and security depend. On this front, China is an obvious choice.
China’s prosperity and security also depends on the stability of the
international order.

  
We believe that there are several concrete measures that the two sides can
take.

  
The upcoming G20 summit in Hamburg in early July will present Europeans, China
and other countries with a key opportunity to reject America’s turn towards
protectionism and its America First ideology. The Chinese government laid a
solid foundation for addressing climate issues within the G20 during the
Hangzhou summit last year. To further this process, closer cooperation between
Europe and China is now essential, and Europe and China can also send a clear
signal against America’s protectionism at the Hamburg summit.

  
The EU and China can also work together in Africa. For Europe, supporting
African peace and development is an investment in its own security and
prosperity. Africa is a key component of China’s Belt and Road Initiative.
Africa is also a key component in the EU’s 2016 Global Security Strategy.
Africadoes not only need China’s investment but also China’s experience in
economic development.

  
So far, Europe has mostly criticised China for neglecting human rights and
environmental issues when doing business in Africa. But without working with
China and African countries, Europe can be accused of being sour obstructer.
So it is time for Europeans and China to compare notes and start coordinating
their Africa policies where appropriate. The EU-Africa summit later this year
in Brussels provides an opportunity to start a strategic dialogue on how
China’s Belt and Road Initiative and the EU’s Africa policy can complement
each other.

  
Finally, the EU and China should also work towards an EU-China Free Trade
Agreement. With the Doha Round blocked, an EU-China FTA could become a major
project with potentially wide impact and a motor of further Asia-Europe
economic integration.

  
Along the way, the EU and China may also bring the East Asian region, which is
now adrift, into a region with a purpose again by facilitating the build-up of
regional governance capacity. The 50th anniversary of the Association of
Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) this August is a great opportunity. The EU has
for a long time shown an interest in joining the East Asia Summit (EAS).

  
As an ASEAN dialogue partner the EU should also participate in the ASEAN
Defence Ministers’ Meeting-Plus. If negotiations on an ASEAN-EU Free Trade
Agreement are relaunched, as it is expected to happen this year, then the EU
could also become in principle eligible to joining the newly-developing Asian
trade architecture within the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership
(RCEP). With President Trump’s decision to exit the Trans Pacific Partnership
(TPP), future EU membership of the RCEP would contribute to further
strengthening of regional and global trade governance. Next year’s Asia-Europe
Meeting (ASEM) summit in Brussels would be an additional opportunity to
enhance the capacity for sustainable development and inter-regional
governance.

  
In this age of uncertainty, both the EU and China will benefit from more long-
term strategic thinking when it comes to the other side. The world will be
more blessed with a steadier EU-China partnership, regardless what happens in
Trump’s America.

  
Sebastian Bersick is Jean Monnet Professor, holds the Chair on the
International Political Economy of East Asia at Ruhr University Bochum,
Germany, and is Adjunct Professor at the School of International Relations and
Public Affairs, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.

  
Shiping Tang is Fudan Distinguished Professor and Dr. Seaker Chan Chair
Professor at the School of International Relations and Public Affairs, Fudan
University, Shanghai, China. His most recent book, The Social Evolution of
International Politics (2013), won the “Annual Best Book Award” of the
International Studies Association in 2015.  

  

原文链接：http://europesworld.org/2017/06/23/can-eu-china-act-
together/#.WUzyzLKqpBd

筛选：鑫辰

编辑：晞哲

  

声 明

国政学人微信公众平台系非盈利学术平台。建立初衷是方便广大学人进行学术研究，促进学术的传播和交流，不做任何商业用途。如有任何权利问题，请直接与我们联系。

  

您可能还会喜欢：

[如约而至｜国际政治经典著作书单整理（附免费下载方式！）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484047&idx=1&sn=7cbf5e66e8c4ecc1567f9259c5ddf5c5&chksm=eb3f9cc9dc4815df5dfd4d47882cb03ee5512acbfc03a57ff759a0b64aea0cd3cf5d6fc36fa8&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[期刊分享 |
国际关系相关专业所有核心期刊免费获取（最新pdf版）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484056&idx=4&sn=23e11c3222678a1409b173359f85dcb6&chksm=eb3f9cdedc4815c8aa50ea71548dfdd5c0cc40a9ea28de076ba14178d74f9e0b7a711b093821&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[学科综述 |
国际政治学学科史（全）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247483961&idx=2&sn=5e1bb06e2f8d246383f9e8174ea0076c&chksm=eb3f9c7fdc481569bcaa1581a4ece88cbe824d51e4d781d7869f341462adc7ba51e294353da7&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

  

![](/images/4176/5.png)

