---
title: 外文阅读|兹比格涅夫·布热津斯基是“自由国际秩序”的坚定捍卫者
date: 2017-05-30 21:53:39
author: 
tags: 
---


收录于合集

![](/images/4264/2.png)

#  

# Zbigniew Brzezinski was an intrepid advocate of the ‘liberal international
order’

  

![](/images/4264/3.jpeg)  
Former national security advisor Zbigniew Brzezinski speaks at a forum hosted
by the Center for Strategic and Internatio

  

  

When thinking about the abstract foreign policy framework known as the
“liberal international order,” it helps to personalize it by remembering the
career of one of its strongest exponents, former national security adviser
Zbigniew Brzezinski.

  

Brzezinski, who died Friday, devoted most of his career to explaining and
enhancing this idea of a robust, supple, U.S.-led architecture for global
security and prosperity. He wanted this American order to be open and
flexible, ready to engage the forces of what he liked to call a “global
political awakening” of rising nations and cultures. **But he also insisted it
must be strong militarily at its core.**

  

Brzezinski was deeply troubled in his final months by the evidence that this
order — the work of his generation — had been undermined almost capriciously
by the rise of the inexperienced President Trump. When Brzezinski received the
Pentagon’s highest civilian award at a ceremony Nov. 10, two days after
Trump’s election, he warned in his brief remarks of coming turmoil in the
nation and the world.

  

He would have been appalled, but not surprised, by the results of Trump’s
Group of Seven meeting last week, after which German Chancellor Angela Merkel
said that the era when Europe could rely on American leadership was “over to a
certain extent.”

  

I first encountered Brzezinski in the late 1970s when he was national security
adviser for President Jimmy Carter. We talked many times over the next four
decades, and in 2008, I engaged him and Brent Scowcroft, national security
adviser for the Ford and Bush 41 administrations, in a series of conversations
about foreign policy that was published as “America and the World.” It was a
manifesto of bipartisan consensus about how to maintain a forward-leaning U.S.
role in global affairs.

  

As Brzezinski’s health weakened this month, I sent him a note suggesting that
with the disorder in the world that had accompanied Trump’s presidency,
perhaps we should resume those conversations. The response was classic “Zbig”
— enthusiastic, oblivious of difficulty and precisely phrased. “Please advise
me of earliest and most convenient schedule for our group to return,” he wrote
back. He died four days later.

  

What made Brzezinski so unusual was that he never rested on his laurels. He
was a brilliant analyst who spoke in perfectly punctuated sentences and
paragraphs — never in canned sound bites. He considered each question as if
for the first time, and he was restless, unsatisfied, willing to consider
other arguments.

  

 **Brzezinski was a hawk for most of his career. But he became increasingly
skeptical that military solutions would produce good results.** He was
outspoken, for example, in his warnings that the Iraq invasion in 2003 was a
mistake. This wasn’t after-the-fact massaging of a position, a la Trump.
Brzezinski paid a cost in the insular, self-reinforcing world of Washington
foreign policy opinion, until it became clear to nearly everyone that he
(joined in this Iraq War opposition by Scowcroft) had been right.

  

 **Brzezinski’s concept of the liberal international order was that it rested
on a framework of alliances and global institutions that could adapt as the
world evolved.** As a Polish refugee, he believed passionately in the freedom
and economic interdependence that the United States defended in World War II
and preserved in postwar institutions such as NATO, the World Bank and the
United Nations. He was convinced that Soviet power wasn’t a permanent fact of
life in Eastern Europe, even back in the 1970s, when such rollback talk was
near heresy among Democrats. He urged that a revived Japan join the Western
partnership, and championed the “Trilateral Commission” to embody this idea.

  

 **Brzezinski’s worries about Trump grew out of his belief in the
interdependent world that the United States had made.** Having seen Western
values and freedoms crushed in Poland, he was protective of them. Having seen
allies regain dignity and prosperity under an American umbrella, he wanted to
maintain it.

  

Trump’s populism was abhorrent to this son of Polish aristocracy, but it
wasn’t just that. Brzezinski didn’t think Trump understood what a precious
creation he was jeopardizing by so recklessly challenging the institutions of
the West.

  

 **This article appeared on The Washington Post** ******on May 29, 2017.**

  

来源：The Washington Post

筛选：维君

编辑：维君

  

 **声 明**

国政学人微信公众平台系非盈利学术平台。建立初衷是方便广大学人进行学术研究，促进学术的传播和交流，不做任何商业用途。如有任何权利问题，请直接与我们联系。

  

您可能还会喜欢：

  

[如约而至｜国际政治经典著作书单整理（附免费下载方式！）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484047&idx=1&sn=7cbf5e66e8c4ecc1567f9259c5ddf5c5&chksm=eb3f9cc9dc4815df5dfd4d47882cb03ee5512acbfc03a57ff759a0b64aea0cd3cf5d6fc36fa8&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[期刊分享 |
国际关系相关专业所有核心期刊免费获取（最新pdf版）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484056&idx=4&sn=23e11c3222678a1409b173359f85dcb6&chksm=eb3f9cdedc4815c8aa50ea71548dfdd5c0cc40a9ea28de076ba14178d74f9e0b7a711b093821&scene=21#wechat_redirect)  

[科普 |
秦晖：极左、左派、右派、极右的区分与现状](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484129&idx=1&sn=b4819efcf421a202fe5000359d0ef690&chksm=eb3f9ca7dc4815b1fddd880e2813515080e9f23e1049089bd9db87260e729551cd43c7619a34&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[学科综述 |
国际政治学学科史（全）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247483961&idx=2&sn=5e1bb06e2f8d246383f9e8174ea0076c&chksm=eb3f9c7fdc481569bcaa1581a4ece88cbe824d51e4d781d7869f341462adc7ba51e294353da7&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[如何用七天时间写一篇期刊投稿论文？你是拖延症患者吗？](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484151&idx=2&sn=beceb344e95a48a15efc15ce307797f0&chksm=eb3f9cb1dc4815a7d4b7a41a82c5f10c07c6e3f0fec0d98d91941c346c4a340c0dfa19419f49&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[学术方法 |
社会科学研究中的文献综述：原则、结构和问题](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484201&idx=3&sn=2b9aa0f06a89ed149a5f455401965d41&chksm=eb3f9d6fdc481479e554f8a3519dfd12446d5100a44584567d2d191535c29584a2835d768a23&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

  

<img src='/images/4264/4.png' width='100%' />

