---
title: 外文阅读|特朗普时代的中美俄关系
date: 2017-05-30 21:53:39
author: 
tags: 
---


收录于合集

![](/images/4263/2.png)

  

The Unpredictable Triangle: U.S.-China-Russia Relations in the Trump Era

  

  

![](/images/4263/3.png)

![](/images/4263/4.jpeg)

The election of Donald Trump as President of the United States at first seemed
likely to rearrange the U.S.-Russia-China strategic triangle. If you remember
your geometry lessons, we now have an isosceles triangle—China occupies the
pivotal position at the top and has better relations with both Russia and the
United States than they have with each other. Initially it appeared that the
new Administration aimed to create a more balanced triangle or even one with
the U.S. re-occupying the pivotal position. Trump’s apparent fascination with
Russian President Vladimir Putin and interest in improving relations with
Russia contrasted with his initial sharp rhetoric about China on trade and
currency manipulation. According to the triangular logic, which hearkens back
to the days of the Nixon Administration’s diplomacy, if the U.S. improved
relations with Russia relationship at a time when Sino-American tensions
increased, this would enhance U.S. leverage in the triangle while deterring
China from behavior that runs counter to U.S. interests and possibly even
distance Moscow from Beijing.

Soon North Korean missile tests and controversy over the Trump
Administration’s connections to Russia would upend this picture. Surprisingly,
U.S.-China-Russia relations have returned largely to where they were during
the Obama Administration. China’s President Xi Jinping managed to charm Trump
at the Mar-a-Lago summit in April and convince him that a good relationship
with China was essential to deterring North Korea. Although the talks there
were reportedly contentious and partially upstaged by Trump’s revelation
during dessert at the state dinner that he had retaliated against Syria’s use
of chemical weapons with an airstrike, Xi left Florida with a commitment from
the Trump Administration to negotiate a 100-day trade plan and was rewarded by
U.S. attendance at the Belt and Road Initiative forum last week. Moreover, in
an effort to encourage China to do more to restrain North Korea, the U.S.
President has put aside promised assertive measures in the South China Sea,
such as freedom of navigation operations, and, despite campaign rhetoric
accusing China of being a currency manipulator, refrained from condemning
China as such.

<img src='/images/4263/5.jpeg' width='561' height='327' />

 **President Obama, Russian President Vladimir Putin and Chinese President Xi
Jinping at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Summit on Nov. 11,
2014, in Beijing. (AP Photo/RIA Novosti, Presidential Press Service)**  

Meanwhile, lukewarm support for Ukraine and apparent disinterest in the Trump
Administration in human rights seemed poised to narrow areas of disagreement
between the U.S. and Russia. This time anti-government protests in Russia
could not be blamed on U.S. machinations. At the same time, any major
improvement in U.S.-Russia relations has become nearly impossible due to the
deepening scandal surrounding the Trump campaign’s dealings with Russian
officials. Although some limited progress has been made—Moscow appears to have
had second thoughts about ending a hotline intended to avoid U.S.-Russian
military clashes in Syria—there is no indication (or possibility) of any major
reorientation of U.S.-Russia relations at present.

While the strategic triangle has not shifted markedly, for Russia and China,
the new political landscape in Washington is fraught with peril— President
Trump has proven to be more unpredictable in some ways, though an easy mark in
others. In part, the lack of coherence on foreign policy in the Trump
Administration can be attributed to staffing problems—many key State
Department positions remain unfilled. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson takes a
decidedly backstage role compared to the National Security Advisor and the
Secretary of Defense and there is no sense of a foreign policy strategy
towards Asia— or anywhere else. Towards North Korea, strategic patience has
been replaced by tactical impatience and a series of bumbling moves, exampled
by the misplacing of the U.S.S. Carl Vinson, that have heightened fears of
conflict breaking out on the Korean peninsula out of miscalculation.

Both Putin and Xi have realized that flattery will get them everywhere with
the new American leader, often leading him astray. President Trump has been
accused of revealing Israeli tradecraft in a conversation on an ISIS plot with
the Russian Foreign Minister and criticized for allowing Russian media to
cover the event, but barring the American press. After a conversation with
President Xi, Trump appears to have come away believing that Korea was once a
part of China—a claim that infuriated South Koreans—and seems to have fallen
into the same trap as the Bush Administration in outsourcing the North Korean
problem to the Chinese, who remain unwilling and/or unable to contain their
unpredictable ally.

Even if the U.S.-China-Russia triangle may not have shifted as predicted a few
months ago, there is remarkable fluidity in the international relations in
Asia. New leaders in South Korea, the Philippines, and Taiwan have reshuffled
the deck and Trump’s unexpected actions have heightened uncertainties.

Before taking office, on December 2nd 2016 Trump accepted a phone call from
Taiwan’s President Tsai Ing-wen and appeared to call into question the
longstanding U.S. one-China policy without much forethought. The Trump
Administration’s apparent interest in bartering this commitment for trade
concessions from Beijing alarmed Taipei, despite the excitement there over the
phone call.

Before Trump’s election, President Rodrigo Duterte sought to improve relations
with China and put aside the territorial dispute in the South China Sea.
Duterte also reached out to Russia—which has an interest in competing for arms
contracts in Manila, long dominated by the U.S.—and will visit Moscow on May
25th. While Duterte famously had a poor relationship with former U.S.
President Barack Obama, calling him a“son of a whore,” he appears more
enthusiastic about Trump, whom he views as more of a kindred spirit, in terms
of using salty language at least. Trump, for his part, surprised Washington by
inviting Duterte to visit the White House, despite widespread criticism of
human rights violations in his anti-drug campaign. Meanwhile, despite his
stated interest in improving relations with Beijing, Duterte has begun
building up the defenses on those islands in the South China Sea which the
Philippines claims.

Previously, perceptions of U.S. economic and military pressure contributed to
the deepening Sino-Russian partnership. Under the Trump Administration, where
every day promises a new domestic scandal or unexpected foreign policy
initiative, Xi claimed after his meeting with Putin on the sidelines of the
Belt and Road Initiative forum last week that China and Russia “have played
the role of ‘ballast stone’ in safeguarding global peace and security.”

While U.S.-China-Russia relations have not changed as predicted (or as Trump
intended) in the first few months of the new administration, this does not
mean the current triangular dynamic is a stable one. The centrality for Trump
of Chinese efforts to deter North Korea potentially holds the Sino-American
relationship hostage to another mercurial figure, Kim Jong-un. Should Chinese
efforts fail, those in the Trump Administration who advocate for a tougher
response to problems in Sino-American economic relations are poised to
reassert their influence over the U.S. President. As much as great power
relations have proven challenging, for the U.S., Russia, and China alike,
managing relations with smaller states and their unpredictable leaders has
proven equally daunting.  

 **This article appeared on China&US Focus ****on May 30, 2017.**

  

来源：China&Us Focus

筛选：红尘

编辑：维君

  

 **声 明**

国政学人微信公众平台系非盈利学术平台。建立初衷是方便广大学人进行学术研究，促进学术的传播和交流，不做任何商业用途。如有任何权利问题，请直接与我们联系。

  

您可能还会喜欢：

[如约而至｜国际政治经典著作书单整理（附免费下载方式！）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484047&idx=1&sn=7cbf5e66e8c4ecc1567f9259c5ddf5c5&chksm=eb3f9cc9dc4815df5dfd4d47882cb03ee5512acbfc03a57ff759a0b64aea0cd3cf5d6fc36fa8&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[期刊分享 |
国际关系相关专业所有核心期刊免费获取（最新pdf版）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484056&idx=4&sn=23e11c3222678a1409b173359f85dcb6&chksm=eb3f9cdedc4815c8aa50ea71548dfdd5c0cc40a9ea28de076ba14178d74f9e0b7a711b093821&scene=21#wechat_redirect)  

[科普 |
秦晖：极左、左派、右派、极右的区分与现状](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484129&idx=1&sn=b4819efcf421a202fe5000359d0ef690&chksm=eb3f9ca7dc4815b1fddd880e2813515080e9f23e1049089bd9db87260e729551cd43c7619a34&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[学科综述 |
国际政治学学科史（全）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247483961&idx=2&sn=5e1bb06e2f8d246383f9e8174ea0076c&chksm=eb3f9c7fdc481569bcaa1581a4ece88cbe824d51e4d781d7869f341462adc7ba51e294353da7&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[如何用七天时间写一篇期刊投稿论文？你是拖延症患者吗？](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484151&idx=2&sn=beceb344e95a48a15efc15ce307797f0&chksm=eb3f9cb1dc4815a7d4b7a41a82c5f10c07c6e3f0fec0d98d91941c346c4a340c0dfa19419f49&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[学术方法 |
社会科学研究中的文献综述：原则、结构和问题](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484201&idx=3&sn=2b9aa0f06a89ed149a5f455401965d41&chksm=eb3f9d6fdc481479e554f8a3519dfd12446d5100a44584567d2d191535c29584a2835d768a23&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

  

<img src='/images/4263/6.png' width='100%' />

