---
title: 外文|ReportonWorldManufacturingProductionQuarterI,2017
date: 2017-06-15 21:59:23
author: 
tags: 
---


收录于合集

![](/images/4204/2.png)  

  

**UNIDO Statistics presents this report on the observed growth of world
manufacturing production in the first quarter of 2017. The quarterly growth
estimates are based on the indices of industrial production. Reports on
earlier quarters are available on UNIDO's website.**  

 **  
**

Effective as of 2013, new country groups are being used in all UNIDO
statistical publications. Details on the country groupings are available in
the 2017 edition of the International Yearbook of Industrial Statistics. The
data in the current report is presented by Revision 4 of the International
Standard for Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities. Users can
find further information on the methodology of index numbers, estimation
procedure or compilation of country groups' indices in a methodological
document, available on the statistical pages of UNIDO's website, together with
indices themselves published in UNIDO's Quarterly IIP database, available at
UNIDO Statistics Data P ortal.

  

  

 **Major findings**

  

● Global manufacturing output rose by 3.7 per cent in the first quarter of
2017 compared to the same period of the previous year, visibly above the 2.6
per cent average increase observed in 2016. The manufacturing output growth
was estimated at 1.9 per cent in industrialized economies, and 6.0 per cent in
developing and emerging industrial economies.

  

● Among the industrialized regions, the pace of growth remained rather
moderate in the North American and European regions, where a 1.1 and 1.4 per
cent expansion was recorded, respectively, while the production in East Asia
witnessed a healthy 4.2 per cent year-by-year upturn.

  

● Asian developing economies achieved a relatively higher growth rate at
nearly 7.0 per cent. Production in other developing regions also increased: by
a marginal rate of 0.4 per cent in Latin America, signaling a recovery from a
prolonged recession, and by a more passable but less stable 5.7 per cent in
Africa.

  

● In terms of industry-wide performance, global manufacturing production
maintained a positive growth in nearly all industries in the first quarter of
2017. High- and medium-high-technology manufacturing industries repeatedly
held top positions.

  

 **Detailed trends**

  

![](/images/4204/3.jpeg)

Figure 1: Positive trends with some improvement in growth figures were
observed across all country groups, steadily progressing over several
consecutive quarters. The recent upturn in the growth performance of
developing countries reflects the stronger than expected growth in China as
well as a healthy pace of growth of the other countries within the country
group. The major industrialized economies with a significant share in global
manufacturing output, namely the United States, Japan, Germany and the
Republic of Korea, thrived during the first quarter of 2017, and pushed the
average growth upward.

  

<img src='/images/4204/4.gif' width='60%' />

  

![](/images/4204/5.jpeg)

Figure 2: Europe's manufacturing output grew by 1.4 per cent, while the
eurozone registered a growth rate of only 1.1 per cent. Even though the growth
trends for these two groups nearly merged at the end of 2016, the onset of
2017 brought a change. The available data point to a more moderate growth
rate, when comparing year-to-year developments among the leading eurozone
economies, at 0.9 per cent in Germany, nearly 1.0 per cent in Italy and 0.6
per cent in France. Supported by the favourable tailwind of a weaker sterling,
the United Kingdom recorded a 2.7 per cent growth in manufacturing output.

  

<img src='/images/4204/6.gif' width='60%' />

  

![](/images/4204/7.jpeg)

Figure 3: The accelerated growth of manufacturing output in developing and
emerging industrial economies was contributed by improved business environment
in different parts of the country group: Latin America broke the prolonged
period of recession, Asian economies prospered more than expected and
increased China-Africa trade boosted production in Africa. Argentina and
Brazil have softened the fall of their manufacturing activities, however,
given the severity of the recession, these economies are likely to take a
longer time for full recovery. Manufacturing growth in India recorded 1.5 per
cent increase.

  

<img src='/images/4204/8.gif' width='60%' />

  

![](/images/4204/9.jpeg)

Figure 4: Economists are predicting that despite the increased risks, the
world is set for a slightly better year in 2017. UNIDO data largely supports
these predictions. When looking at year-by-year global developments of high-
and medium-high-technology manufacturing industries, the manufacture of
computers, electronics and optical products grew by 8.5 per cent, the
production of machinery and equipment rose by 6.1 per cent and the manufacture
of motor vehicles by 5.6 per cent. Relatively high growth rates in the
production of basic consumer goods were maintained worldwide. The global
manufacture of food products rose by 3.5 per cent, beverages by 2.8 per cent
and the global manufacture of wearing apparel increased by 2.6 per cent.

  

 **To view the full report please click**

 **“Read More”in the bottom of the article**

  

The description and classification of countries, economies and territories in
this publication and the arrangement of the material do not imply the
expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of the Secretariat of the
United Nations Industrial Development Organization concerning the legal status
of any country, territory, city or area, or of its authorities, or concerning
the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries, or regarding its economic
system or degree of development. The designation "country, economy or area"
covers countries, economies, territories, cities and areas. The designation
"region, country, economies or area" extends the preceding one by including
groupings of entities designated as "country, economy or area". Designations
such as "industrialized" and "developing and emerging industrial" economies
are intended for statistical convenience and do not necessarily express a
judgement about the stage reached by a particular country, economy or area in
the developing process.

  

UNITED NATIONS INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATION

  

Vienna International Center, P.O. Box  
Internet: www.unido.org/statistics/

本文来源： **投资中国**  

筛选 **: 汪乐乐**

编辑： **里仝**

  

您可能还会喜欢：

[如约而至｜国际政治经典著作书单整理（附免费下载方式！）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484047&idx=1&sn=7cbf5e66e8c4ecc1567f9259c5ddf5c5&chksm=eb3f9cc9dc4815df5dfd4d47882cb03ee5512acbfc03a57ff759a0b64aea0cd3cf5d6fc36fa8&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[期刊分享 |
国际关系相关专业所有核心期刊免费获取（最新pdf版）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484056&idx=4&sn=23e11c3222678a1409b173359f85dcb6&chksm=eb3f9cdedc4815c8aa50ea71548dfdd5c0cc40a9ea28de076ba14178d74f9e0b7a711b093821&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[学科综述 |
国际政治学学科史（全）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247483961&idx=2&sn=5e1bb06e2f8d246383f9e8174ea0076c&chksm=eb3f9c7fdc481569bcaa1581a4ece88cbe824d51e4d781d7869f341462adc7ba51e294353da7&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

  

<img src='/images/4204/10.jpeg' width='100%' />

  

  

  

  

