---
title: 痴迷于歌功颂德的特朗普（双语）
date: 2017-03-03 22:23:54
author: 
tags: 
---


收录于合集

![](/images/4440/2.png)

### **痴迷于歌功颂德的特朗普**

  

###### ![](/images/4440/3.jpeg)

  

特朗普总统痴迷于自己的人气，这不是什么秘密，这种人气可以通过民意调查、支持率和《时代》(Time)杂志封面来衡量。但是昨晚，总统表明，这种痴迷甚至可以来得更深，远不仅仅限于其就民意调查数字不断发出的推文。

  

周二晚上对国会发表讲话时，特朗普向威廉·（瑞安）·欧文斯(William [Ryan]
Owens)军士长致敬，后者是一名海军海豹突击队成员，1月在也门的一次袭击行动中身亡。“瑞安为了朋友、为了国家，也为了我们的自由而献出生命，”他说。
“我们永远不会忘记他。”

  

当观众向欧文斯军士长的遗孀卡伦·欧文斯(Carryn
Owens)起立鼓掌时，特朗普补充说，“瑞安现在正在看着我们，你知道的，他很高兴，因为我认为他刚刚打破了一个纪录。”他指的应该是掌声持续时间的长度。

  

特朗普周二的演讲受到一些人的赞扬，这次，他的态度比最近的公开发言更加趋向和解。但他对欧文斯军士长的评论表明，即使他的语言稍有变化，他的基本态度仍是保持不变的。

  

事实上，这个评论对窥探总统的心理颇有助益：当他想象一位去世的老兵从天堂俯视着自己的遗孀，俯视着总统和集合起来的国会时，他认为这个老兵是在测量人们为自己鼓掌的时间有多长，为打破了纪录而沾沾自喜。换句话说，被要求站在一个“为了朋友、为了国家，也为了我们的自由而献出生命”的人的立场上看问题时，特朗普假定，能让这样一个人满足的事情和能让他自己满足的事情是一样的，那就是：歌功颂德。

  

这个小小的遐想是周二的演说中少见的一个没有草稿的时刻，特朗普沉浸其中，这一点颇为说明问题。

  

这位总统有能力做总统该做的事情，例如纪念在执行职务中被杀害的服役人员。他甚至能够使用宗教语言——一种对他来说相对比较新鲜的语言——纪念死者。“圣经教导我们，”他说，“为朋友献身是最大的爱。”

  

但是当他脱离剧本，说出自己的心里话时，他回到了他所知道的东西：关于人气、支持率和纪录的语言。他在说到欧文斯士兵长时使用这种语言，这表明它不仅仅是一种痴迷，而是一整套世界观。不仅特朗普自己会被最直白的，最数字化的“人气”所鼓舞——他相信每个人都是这样的。

  

由于特朗普冷漠而娴熟地操纵着美国人的仇外心理，这种世界观的全面后果非常复杂，可能在一段时间内都不会变得清晰起来。但美国人应该明白，星期二的演讲当然不代表总统的变化，而是再次证明了他最根深蒂固的特征之一：他愿意说任何需要说的话，只为了让观众喜欢他。

  

尽管他经常声称自己说出了丝毫不加粉饰的真理，而不考虑反响如何，事实上他极其关心人们对他的看法，以致于可能无法去想象还要去关心什么别的事情。

  

 **【英文版】**

###  **Donald Trump’s Obsession With Applause**

 **  
**

###### By ANNA NORTH March 2, 2017

######  

It’s no secret that President Trump is obsessed with his own popularity, as
measured by polls, ratings and Time magazine covers. But last night, the
president revealed that this obsession goes even deeper than his constant
tweets about poll numbers would suggest.

During his address to Congress on Tuesday night, Mr. Trump paid tribute to
Chief Petty Officer William (Ryan) Owens, a Navy SEAL who was killed during a
raid in Yemen in January. “Ryan laid down his life for his friends, for his
country and for our freedom,” he said. “We will never forget him.”

When the audience gave Carryn Owens, Chief Owens’s widow, a standing ovation,
Mr. Trump added, “Ryan is looking down right now, you know that, and he’s very
happy, because I think he just broke a record.” He was referring, presumably,
to the length of the applause.

Mr. Trump has been praised in some quarters for Tuesday’s address, during
which he took a more conciliatory tone than he has in recent public
appearances. But his comment about Chief Owens showed that even if his
language changes slightly, his fundamental outlook stays the same.

In fact, the comment offered a useful peek into the president’s psyche: When
he imagines a deceased veteran gazing down from heaven at his widow, the
president and the assembled Congress, he sees that veteran measuring the
length of his own ovation, and patting himself on the back for breaking a
record. In other words, when asked to take the perspective of someone who has
“laid down his life for his friends, for his country, and for our freedom,”
Mr. Trump assumes that what would gratify such a person is the same thing that
gratifies him: adulation.

The fact that Mr. Trump engaged in this little reverie, a rare unscripted
moment during Tuesday’s address, is revealing.

The president is capable of doing presidential things, like paying tribute to
the memory of a service member killed in the line of duty. He is even capable
of using the language of religion — a language that is relatively new to him —
to memorialize the deceased. “As the Bible teaches us,” he said, “there is no
greater act of love than to lay down one’s life for one’s friends.”

But when he goes off-script, when he speaks from the heart, as it were, he
reverts to what he knows: the language of popularity, ratings and records. His
use of that language with respect to Chief Owens shows it to be not merely an
obsession, but an entire worldview. Not only is Mr. Trump motivated by
popularity in the barest, most numerical sense — he believes everyone is.

The full consequences of this worldview, complicated as they are by Mr.
Trump’s incuriosity and facility for playing on American xenophobia, may not
become clear for some time. But Americans would do well to take Tuesday’s
address not as a change of course for the president but as yet another example
of one of his most entrenched traits: his willingness to say whatever he needs
to say to get an audience to like him.

Despite his frequent claims that he delivers unvarnished truth without regard
to the reaction, he cares so much about what people think of him that he may
not be able to imagine caring about anything else.

来源 | 《纽约时报》2017年3月2日

作者 | 安娜·诺斯

编辑 | Alfie

![](/images/4440/4.jpeg)

![](/images/4440/5.png)

