---
title: 约翰霍普金斯大学招聘外交政策方向博士后
date: 2021-02-27 19:55:00
author: 
tags: 
---


收录于合集

![](/images/1194/2.jpeg)

  

<img src='/images/1194/3.jpeg' width='25' height='25' />

**Brzezinski Post-Doctoral Fellowship - Foreign Policy Institute**

 **Institution:Johns Hopkins University  
**

 **Location:Washington,DC**

 **Category:Faculaty-Liberal Arts-Political Science**

 **Posted:02/08/2021**

 **Application Due:03/15/2021**

 **Type:Full-Time**

![](/images/1194/4.png)

  

The Paul H. Nitze School for Advanced International Studies (SAIS) is pleased
to announce two postdoctoral opportunities for outstanding scholars to conduct
research under the auspices of its Foreign Policy Institute. During the
academic year 2021-2022 two post-doctoral fellowships will be awarded for a
twelve-month period from September 1, 2021 to August 31, 2022.  

  

A division of Johns Hopkins University, SAIS is a global institution that
provides interdisciplinary professional education to prepare a diverse student
body for internationally related positions of responsibility; to foster
research, scholarship and cross-cultural exchange; and to contribute
knowledge, expertise, and leadership to the global community.

  

The SAIS Foreign Policy Institute (FPI) unites the worlds of scholarship and
policy in the search for realistic answers to international issues facing the
United States and the world. To this end, it organizes research initiatives
and study groups, and hosts leaders from around the world as resident or non-
resident fellows in fields including international policy, business,
journalism, and academia.

  

To recognize Dr. Brzezinski's legacy, Johns Hopkins SAIS and its Foreign
Policy Institute have established **The Brzezinski Initiative** , a unique set
of academic programs that build on the school's strengths as a leading center
for training graduate students in international policy and relevant academic
research. This recognition comprises both immediate programming and longer-
term plans, which together will equip a new generation of policy experts
capable of the authoritative analysis, strategic vision, and active diplomacy
that were hallmarks of Dr. Brzezinski's role as a scholar, policy advisor, and
statesman.

  

The inaugural **Brzezinski Postdoctoral Fellowships** enables two
exceptionally promising scholars working in the field of American foreign
policy or foreign and international security policy to spend a year affiliated
with the SAIS Foreign Policy Institute. Fellows are expected to contribute to
the intellectual life of FPI and SAIS more broadly.

  

**01**

 **Brzezinski Postdoctoral Fellowships**

Dr. Zbigniew Brzezinski taught American Foreign Policy at SAIS from 1989 to
1998 and sustained his intellectual contribution to the life of the School as
a senior fellow at FPI until his passing. Thanks to the generosity of SAIS
alumni, this postdoctoral fellowship recognizes his critical contribution to
intellectually significant, policy relevant research in the area of American
Foreign Policy.

  

Selected post-doctoral fellows should be within seven years of having
completed their doctorate at the time they submit their application and will
be expected to be at the stage when they are preparing their dissertation for
publication as a book. The **Brzezinski Postdoctoral Fellow in American
Foreign Policy** will receive an annual stipend of $62,000 and $4,000 in
research funding during the appointment (budget submissions required to
account for funds). Fellowship recipients are eligible for Johns Hopkins
University health benefits.

  

The **Brzezinski Postdoctoral Fellowship in Foreign and Security Policy**
honors the legacy of Dr. Brzezinski's farsighted analysis of trends shaping
the international policy environment. Selected post-doctoral fellows should be
within seven years of having completed their doctorate at the time they submit
their application and will be expected to be at the stage when they are
preparing their dissertation for publication as a book.

  

The **Brzezinski Postdoctoral Fellow in American Foreign Policy** will receive
an annual stipend of $62,000 and $4,000 in research funding during the
appointment (budget submissions required to account for funds). Fellowship
recipients are eligible for Johns Hopkins University health benefits.

  

Please contact vrosell1@jhu.edu if you have any questions.

  

 **02**

 **Qualifications  
**

To qualify for consideration, candidates must have completed all requirements
of their doctoral degree no earlier than March 15, 2014 and no later than
March 12, 2021. If a successful applicant has not earned a Ph.D. at the time
of application, the applicant's advisers must submit a formal letter
confirming that the applicant has completed all the requirements for the Ph.D.
by May 21, 2021.

  

*Fellows must be prepared to devote themselves full-time to their research during the period of their fellowship and therefore must agree they will not hold other employment during their fellowship. 

  

**03**

 **Application Instructions**

The deadline to submit applications is 11:59p.m. (EST) Monday, March 15, 2021.

  

Applications must be submitted via Interfolio.

  

Candidates may not apply for both fellowships.

  

Required application documents: A one-page cover letter describing your
interest in the selected fellowship, your background, a brief description of
your research project, and what you will accomplish during the period of your
postdoctoral fellowship; a current CV; two examples of your scholarly writing;
graduate-level transcripts (unofficial are acceptable); two letters of
reference; other relevant documents, such as evidence of English proficiency

  

 **04**

 **Application Information**

 **Contact** :Johns Hopkins University

 **OnlineAPP.Form** ：https://apply.interfolio.com/83965  

  

Johns Hopkins University is an equal opportunity employer and does not
discriminate on the basis of race, color, gender, religion, age, sexual
orientation, national or ethnic origin, disability, marital status, veteran
status, or any other occupationally irrelevant criteria. The university
promotes affirmative action for minorities, women, disabled persons, and
veterans.

  

  

**好好学习，天天“在看”**<img src='/images/1194/5.gif' width='17' height='17' />

<img src='/images/1194/6.png' width='100%' />

