---
title: 约翰斯•霍普金斯大学招聘中非研究博士后
date: 2021-02-28 20:03:46
author: 
tags: 
---


收录于合集

![](/images/1193/2.jpeg)

  

<img src='/images/1193/3.jpeg' width='25' height='25' />

**Postdoctoral Fellow-China Africa Research Initiative**

 **Institution:Johns Hopkins University  
**

 **Location:Washington,DC**

 **Start date:June, 2021 (FLEXIBLE)**

 **Duration of position: 10 months from the start date**

![](/images/1193/4.png)

 **01**

 **Description**

Founded in 1943 and a Johns Hopkins division since 1950, The Paul H. Nitze
School of Advanced International Studies of the Johns Hopkins University
(SAIS) has been educating global leaders for almost 60 years. As a highly
selective graduate institution with a distinguished faculty, SAIS consistently
ranks as one of the top schools of international relations in the world. SAIS
was founded to provide a practical approach to training students in
international leadership and foreign relations, and to provide mid-career
educational opportunities for those already working in related fields. Today,
SAIS offers the M.A., M.I.P.P., and Ph.D. degrees and enrolls some 700 full-
time students on the Washington, DC campus, 190 students at the SAIS Center in
Bologna, Italy, and about 180 Chinese and international students at the
Hopkins-Nanjing Center in Nanjing, China.

  

The China-Africa Research Initiative at Johns Hopkins School of Advanced
International Studies (SAIS-CARI), directed by Professor Deborah Brautigam,
will offer one pre- or post-doctoral research fellow position for a ten-month
period during the 2021-2022 academic year (approximately June 2021 to May
2022). Fellows will spend half of their time on their own Chinese loan-related
research projects, and half providing support to CARI research on Chinese
lending. This support could include drafting research papers, policy briefs,
and related op-eds and “public square” pieces; presenting at conferences and
public events; and assisting with, and participating in, interviews, outreach
activities and communications as necessary. To apply, please provide the
following:

  

1.Cover letter explaining your fit for the position, including your scholarly
interest in China’s overseas lending, the use (if any) that you would make of
CARI’s extensive data on Chinese lending in Africa, and prospective or actual
doctoral defense date;

Current C.V. including publications;

  

2.1000-word description of the research project you would work on at SAIS,
including its specific objectives, importance, and research design;

  

3.One writing sample;

  

4.Three letters of recommendation requested directly through the Interfolio
system.

  

We will begin reviewing applications on February 28, 2021 and will continue to
review new applications until the position is filled, or until March 31, 2021,
11:59pm EST, whichever is earlier. Rank and salary will be contingent on
qualifications.

  

Please contact sais-cari@jhu.edu with any questions.

  

This position is funded by a grant from Carnegie Corporation of New York.

  

  

 ** _About Johns Hopkins SAIS_**

Visit the SAIS website at

http://www.sais-jhu.edu/  

  
 ** _About CARI_**

Visit the CARI website at http://www.sais-cari.org/

  

**02**

 **Qualifications  
**

An understanding of China’s overseas economic engagement (trade, investment,
aid, loans, other forms of cooperation) is essential for this position. Our
preference is for candidates who have conducted field research, preferably in
Africa although we are open to comparative perspectives. Econometric skills
would be an asset but are not required. Ability to read and do research in
Chinese is essential.

  

We prefer candidates who have completed all Ph.D. training and have defended
their dissertations, but will consider exceptional candidates who are still
writing their dissertations as pre-doctoral fellows. Candidates may not be
more than five years beyond receipt of the Ph.D. at the start of the
fellowship.

  

 **03**

 **Application Instructions**

To apply, please provide the following:

  

1.Cover letter explaining your fit for the position, including your scholarly
interest in China’s overseas lending, the use (if any) that you would make of
CARI’s extensive data on Chinese lending in Africa, and prospective or actual
doctoral defense date;

Current C.V. including publications;

  

2.1000-word description of the research project you would work on at SAIS,
including its specific objectives, importance, and research design;

  

3.One writing sample;

  

4.Three letters of recommendation requested directly through the Interfolio
system.

  

We will begin reviewing applications on February 28, 2021 and will continue to
review new applications until the position is filled, or until March 31, 2021,
11:59pm EST, whichever is earlier. Rank and salary will be contingent on
qualifications.

  

Please contact sais-cari@jhu.edu with any questions, Please place “
**Postdoctoral Fellow Application** ” in the subject line.

  

The Johns Hopkins University is committed to equal opportunity for its
faculty, staff, and students. To that end, the university does not
discriminate on the basis of sex, gender, marital status, pregnancy, race,
color, ethnicity, national origin, age, disability, religion, sexual
orientation, gender identity or expression, veteran status or other legally
protected characteristic. The university is committed to providing qualified
individuals access to all academic and employment programs, benefits and
activities on the basis of demonstrated ability, performance and merit without
regard to personal factors that are irrelevant to the program involved.

  

  

**好好学习，天天“在看”**<img src='/images/1193/5.gif' width='17' height='17' />

![](/images/1193/6.png)

