---
title: 约瑟夫·奈：特朗普给欧洲的大礼
date: 2017-07-11 22:00:00
author: 
tags: 
---


收录于合集

![](/images/4135/2.png)

  * ![](/images/4135/3.jpeg)

Joseph S. Nye

Professor, Harvard University

# ![](/images/4135/4.jpeg)

  

At a recent conference in France, a number of Europeans surprised their
American guests by arguing that US President Donald Trump might be good for
Europe. With Trump returning to Europe for the G20 summit in Hamburg, it’s
worth asking whether they are right.

  

By most accounts, Trump’s presidency has been terrible for Europe. He seems to
disdain the European Union. His relationship with German Chancellor Angela
Merkel is cool in comparison to his friendship with Turkey’s authoritarian
president, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, or his admiration for Russian President
Vladimir Putin.

Moreover, Trump welcomes Britain’s looming exit from the EU; upon meeting
Prime Minister Theresa May for the first time, he is alleged to have asked
enthusiastically, “Who’s next?” Finally, Trump only belatedly reaffirmed
NATO’s Article 5 (which pledges mutual defense); he withdrew the US from the
Paris climate agreement, which is very popular in Europe; and he has cut US
funds for the United Nations, which has strong European support.

Not surprisingly, Trump is personally unpopular across Europe. In a recent Pew
poll indicates that only 22% of Britons, 14% of French, and 11% of Germans
have confidence in him. But this very unpopularity – more anti-Trump than
anti-American – has helped to reinforce European values.

Earlier in the year, there was a fear that a rising tide of the type of
nationalist populism that brought Trump to office and led to Brexit might be
about to sweep Europe, even giving the far-right Marine Le Pen the French
presidency. Instead, the populist wave seemed to have crested with Trump’s
election. Since then, populists have been defeated in Austria and the
Netherlands; the French elected Emmanuel Macron, a centrist newcomer; and May,
the champion of a “hard” Brexit, lost her parliamentary majority in last
month’s snap general election.

Europe still confronts the slow growth, high unemployment, and political
disunity that have plagued it in the decade since the 2008 global financial
crisis. But whoever wins the German election this September will be a
moderate, not an extreme nationalist, and will understand the importance of
working with Macron to restart the Franco-German engine of European progress.

The Brexit negotiations promise to be complex and contentious. For “soft
Brexiteers,” who want to preserve Britain’s access to the European single
market, the problem is that the Brexit vote mainly reflected concerns about
immigration, not about the minutiae of the single market’s rules. Yet Europe
refuses to allow goods and services to flow freely without free movement of
people. Some three million Europeans currently live in Britain, and a million
Britons reside in Europe.

A possible compromise could be found by creating a new Euro-British entity,
one that would guarantee the rights of both sides’ citizens while allowing
some limits on immigration as well as on some goods. One could think of this
entity in terms of concentric circles, with free movement characterizing the
inner circle of the EU and constraints allowed in the outer circle.

Whether such compromises will be possible depends upon European flexibility.
In the past, Europeans have talked about allowing “variable speeds” toward the
implied goal of “ever closer union.” This federal goal would have to be
replaced, and a metaphor of different levels would have to replace that of
different speeds.

Many Europeans elites have already become more flexible regarding Europe’s
future and have moved past the federalist goal to envision a European entity
that is sui generis. They point out that three different levels of
participation already exist in Europe: the customs union, the euro currency,
and the Schengen Agreement on the removal of internal borders. Defense could
become a fourth.

In the past, European progress on cooperation in defense has been inhibited
not only by concerns about sovereignty, but also by the security guarantee
offered by the United States. With Trump raising doubts about American
reliability, the security issue has moved to the foreground.

Efforts to build a common European defense system have begun, but the process
is slow. Other than Britain, only the French have major expeditionary force
capabilities, while Germany has been inhibited by history from doing more. And
Britain was always reluctant to do anything that might compete with NATO. But
these attitudes are beginning to change.

Again, the image of concentric circles can help. In the run-up to the Iraq war
in the early 2000s, someargued that, in terms of security, Americans are from
Mars, while Europeans are from Venus. But the world has changed, and Europe
now faces a series of external threats. Russia’s attacks on Georgia and
Ukraine have reminded Europeans of the dangers they face from their large
neighbor. Deterring Russia will still require a strong NATO.

Another set of threats, however, could come from violence in the Balkans. Some
observers believe that civil war was only narrowly averted recently in
Macedonia. A European peacekeeping force could make a major contribution to
stability in the region.

A third set of threats to Europe originates in North Africa and the Middle
East. Libya is in chaos and the source of dangerous Mediterranean voyages by
desperate migrants, and one can also imagine the need to protect citizens or
rescue hostages in the region. Here the French expeditionary capability,
perhaps coupled with Britain’s, could help provide security. Even if Britain
does not participate, other Europeans could help, as Germany now does in
dealing with terrorism in Mali.

Europe is a long way from a common defense structure, but the need is growing.
And, ironically, the unpopular Trump may prove more of a help than a
hindrance.

 **Copyright: Project Syndicate, 2017.  
** **www.project-syndicate.org**

  

来源：http://www.chinausfocus.com/foreign-policy/trumps-gift-to-europe

筛选：红尘

编辑：晞哲

您可能还会喜欢：

[如约而至｜国际政治经典著作书单整理（附免费下载方式！）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484047&idx=1&sn=7cbf5e66e8c4ecc1567f9259c5ddf5c5&chksm=eb3f9cc9dc4815df5dfd4d47882cb03ee5512acbfc03a57ff759a0b64aea0cd3cf5d6fc36fa8&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[期刊分享 |
国际关系相关专业所有核心期刊免费获取（最新pdf版）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247484056&idx=4&sn=23e11c3222678a1409b173359f85dcb6&chksm=eb3f9cdedc4815c8aa50ea71548dfdd5c0cc40a9ea28de076ba14178d74f9e0b7a711b093821&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

[学科综述 |
国际政治学学科史（全）](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI3MTYzMzE5Mw==&mid=2247483961&idx=2&sn=5e1bb06e2f8d246383f9e8174ea0076c&chksm=eb3f9c7fdc481569bcaa1581a4ece88cbe824d51e4d781d7869f341462adc7ba51e294353da7&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

  

<img src='/images/4135/5.jpeg' width='100%' />

  

